# 06-11-2020 AWS SAA Exam Notes -Part C

Revised On: 03.11.2020


Reference: [AWS Training from Adrain](https://learn.cantrill.io/)

## AWS Public vs Private Services

* Whether it is public or private service, it is not accessible by default unless you are Root :woman_teacher:
* AWS Service to be classified as Public, service should be running from the AWS Public Zone
* If you can access the service, then it does not mean you have permission to use that service. It is same as "not having Authorization" principle of AAA
* There is another zone Private Zone. It is zone completely isolated from the internet.

> If you deploy EC2 instance (VM) in this zone, then you cannot access the internet and neither you can connect to it unless you do configure to do so.

## AWS Global Infrastructure

### Important Terms

* Global Services
* Regional Services
  * Provides Geopolitical separation
  * Provides Governance separation
  * You will be bided by the Laws & Regulation to the selected Region
  * every region has code
* Zone Services
* Regions
* Edge Locations
  
So, when you interact with any services in AWS, it is 9 out of 10 times it is regional services. Unless that service is global service.

So Global Services are

* Route53
* IAM

 ### Availability Zones (AZ)

* This is the most important concept to understand. It is simple to explain but difficult to digest.
* AZ has it own
  * Power
  * Compute
  * Networking (so subnet defined in AZ-A, is not available in AZ-B)
  * Storage
  * Facilities (read DC)
* If AZ fails, then service in another AZ is available. But if the region fails, then all services in all AZ are impacted.
* Some services are AZ specific. This means, if AZ fails then service also fails. Unless you do something to protect that service e.g. backup and restore.


