# 07-11-2020 AWS SAA Exam Notes -Part A

Reference: [AWS Training from Adrian](https://learn.cantrill.io/)

## AWS Default Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

* VPC stands for Virtual Private Cloud.
* You must define VPC to
  * connect to other cloud
  * connect your on premises network with AWS
* In other words, it is pre-requisite
* VPC is regional Service this means that service is available across AZs
* VPC is by default is private and isolated. Isolated suggests that it is not connected to AWS Public Zone, other VPC or have internet access

### Two Types of VPC

#### Default VPC

* it is maximum 1 per region
* default CIDR is always 172.31.0.0/16
* /20 subnet is created in each AZ.
* Default Internet GW, Network ACL and Security Groups are created
* Security group can be attached to multiple EC2 instances. Therefore SG is not one-2-one mapping.
* IGW gives outgoing internet access
* All subnets created in default VPC are automatically assign IPv4 Public address. This also means, that EC2 instance by default are accessible from Internet and vice versa.
  
#### Custom VPC

* Since VPC is regional service, subnets are placed in each AZ of that region
* These subnets are unique to AZ and cannot overlap

## Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) Basics

* EC2 is AZ service or AZ resilient. 
* EC2 is IaaS and is on demand service. Billed in seconds/hours
* EC2 instance can be launch from specific Subnet in a VPC
* During provisioning you can decided whether the the Instance can be accessible from Public or not. Of course it depends upon whether you done ground configuration for it. But if you deploy this VM in default VPC, it is by default accessible from the Internet
* EC2 important states to remember
  * running
  * stopped
  * Terminated (most important)
* Amazon Machine Image (AMI) comes default
  * with permissions e.g. who can deploy instance from AMI.
  * default AMI provided by AWS are **public**. But you can create your own AMI and choose to keep it private (**owner implicit**) or public or give access to specific AWS account (**explicit**)
* Status Checks
  * Instance checks (OS is available and ready to accept network traffic)
  * System Status Checks (Hypervisor checks)
  * 2 out 2 check should be <ins>**Green**</ins>

Revised On: 21.11.2020 | Next Revision: 24.11.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------