# 07-11-2020 AWS SAA Exam Notes -Part C

Reference: [AWS Training from Adrain](https://learn.cantrill.io/)

## Cloud Formation (CFN) Basics

* In the Cloud Formation Template, resource section is the only mandatory part.
* It is the resource section which define what to do.
* When AWS Template Version is stated in the template, then description must follow it.
* Metadata section controls how GUI looks (need more information, did not understood so well)
* Parameter section is nothing but input field e.g. instance size, AZ selection and other similar things
* Mapping section helps us to make your template independent of the various parameters specific to region e.g. AMI ID in us-east-1 is different than us-east-2. But the template can read the region and then automatically select AMI ID to deploy the EC2 instance in the selected region.
* Condition section helps with decision making based on the input given by the enduser
* Output section is the output from the template being applied e.g. resourceid of EC2 instance or PublicIP of WP Blog
* It is the primary tool for Infrastructure as code.
* Primary functions are
  * creating of resources
  * updating of resources
  * deleting of resources
  * CF takes care of which resources are deployed first and their dependencies
  * Change management

## CloudWatch (CW) Basics

* Product which focuses on operations, management and monitoring. In short critical part of Production operations
* It is Public Service
* It is 3 products in single service
* It collect metrics e.g. CPU utilization of EC2 instance
* CW Agent can be used collect metrics inside EC2 instance e.g. memory consumed by a specific process
* CW Agent (deployed inside the OS) is required to collect metrics for instance which are on non-aws platform
* Namespace - AWS/Service name e.g. AWS/EC2. Namespace is a container for monitoring Data
* Keywords
  * Metrics (CPU utilization in %)
  * Datapoints
  * Dimension - e.g. EC2 instanceid, instancetype
  * Alarm can be associated with Metrics
  * Alarm itself can be used to generate action e.g. send msg to SNS

### CW Watch Logs

* As the name suggests it collect logs. Almost anything that is logged is ingested into CW Logs
* e.g. could Firewall logs, Windows Event logs or Linux Server logs
* These logs can be analysed and action can be triggered based on the events in these logs
* CW Agent will also be able to send logs to AWS from non-AWS platform e.g. on-premises

### CW Events

* This product is to generate event to specific action as specific time of the day.

> Bit difficult topic to understand. I need to revise this later on

Revised On: 26.11.2020 | Next Revision: 29.11.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------
