# EC2 Advanced 19.11.2020

## EC2 Boot strapping

* data/script passed on to the OS only **once** at **launch time** and it is then executed by OS on behalf of you. Let me repeat, if you update user data and restart the instance. It won't work. But user data which was modified is always there or gets update but not executed.
* it is actually http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data
* Focused on automation or customization of instance over and above AMI Customization
* Since Instance Metadata is not secure by default, do not put any password/credentials via user-data section
* user data is limited to 16 KB in size

## Cloudformation Init

* cfn-init is helper script and by default installed on EC2 OS
* it can replace userdata and also can act as Desired State (cfn-init)
* it can also be used to update the component (this is not possible with userdata)
  
### CreationPolicy and ResourceSignal

* cfn-init send success signal to cfn-signal. If signal is success it reports to CFN, every is completed successfully or wait 15 minutes before timing out
* This is very important to confirm if the all the customisation has succeeded or not. Without this, there is no way to 100% sure that all went well. Of course you can check /var/log/cloud-init-output.log
* This is advance concept but worth knowing this part.

#### Important log location

* /var/log/cloud-init-output - all steps execute in userdata (?)
* /var/log/cfn-init-cmd.log - all steps execute in cfn-init
* either ways it is good place to check if cfn-init is timing out

### EC2 Instance Role

* EC2 Instance Role is the role which gives you access to administrator that instance
* but in order to access that role, you need to give permission to the application inside the EC2 to use these permissions
* These permissions are delivered via instance meta data
* EC2 and the secure Token service liase with each other to ensure that the credentials are always renewed before they expire. EC2 instance keep check metadata to ensure that token is valid.
* Use this role, you can access AWS resources inside EC2 e.g S3 Bucket
* So when applications wants to use these credentials, they have to check metadata so that token is always latest. Token is automatically rotated. Because if the application is caching the credentials, if they do not check metadata, then will fail to get access to S3 resource or AWS resources.
* http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/iam/security-credentials to find the name of the Role 

### Systems Manager (SSM) Parameter stores

* Use to store secrets and parameters which can be used by CFN or AWS resources (Lambda, EC2)
* Standard (free)
  * Maximum size is 4KB (remember this is max amount KMS can encrypted)
  * 10,000 objects
* Advanced
  * max size 8 KB
  * 10,000 and more
* It stores 
  * string : License Keys
  * string list : database connection strings,
  * securestring
* you can also store the parameter in hierarchical store and provides you versioning as well
* Concept of Public Parameter (latest AMID)
* need IAM Role and optional KMS Role when using secrets
* hierarchical structure helps you create a tree e.g. specific division and then you can assign permissions on the tree or individual child items.
* Parameters store can also trigger events and can used to start off processes in other AWS Services
* command is not required to remember but for real world usage it is good to know

`aws ssm get-parameters-by-path --path /myfirstssm/myname --profile preetam_aws`

`aws ssm get-parameters-by-path --path /myfirstssm/mypassword --with-decryption --profiöe preetam_aws`

