# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 17.12.2020

## CloudWatch Agent and SSM Store

* Cloud Agent needs both configuration and Permissions to send data to cloudwatch
* CloudWatch Agent configuration can be stored in the parameter store
* CloudWatch Logs have something called as Loggroups and inside these logs groups are log streams.
  * loggroup-1 /var/log/**secure** and log stream can be vm1
  * loggroup-2 /var/log/**warning** and log stream can be for instance1 and instance2 (you will see instance ID there)
* CloudWatch agent needs to download and it is in rpm format
* CloudWatch agent do not start after installation. 
* You should first create configuration file which defines what you wish to monitor. Second, since this configuration we are planning to store in SSM Parameter store, it needs permissions on parameter store. So we need to create a role which allow ec2 instance to send the configuration file to SSM Parameter store. To logs to cloudwatch, EC2 instance needs a permissions.
* There are two parts to cloud configuration
  * First we decide what we wish to monitor e.g. metrics
  * Second which decide which logs to send to cloudwatch agent
* Default location where the file is store is `opt/aws/amazon-cloudwatch-agent/bin/config.json`

## EC2 Placement Groups

Three types of placement groups. DRS as in VMware but of course in different way

1. Cluster group (keep VMs together)
2. Spread Group (keep VMs separated)
3. Partition group (keep VMs of same application together)

### Cluster Placement Group

What is the cluster placement group?

You place the instance in same AZ to achieve high performance, low latency and high speed. **Single stream of 10 Gbps.** But you cannot span the instances across AZ. So the application which are selecting should be doing some kind of processing on temporary data e.g. media processing.

* You also need to 
  * Select right EC2 instance selection which has high performance e.g. Network card of 10 Gig performance (?)
  * Enable Enhanced Networking (read SRIOV)

* Single Stream performance of 10 Gbps (normal is 5 Gbps)
  
#### Additional recommendations (not mandatory)

1. Select same instance type
2. Launch them at same time

### Spread Placement Group

1. Instances are separate from each other on different host in different racks. 
2. You can have maximum of 7 instances per AZ
3. Each instance is not only placed on dedicated host but also on separate Rack.

#### Considerations/Limits

1. do not support dedicated host
2. neither supported for dedicated instances

### Partition Placement Groups

1. You get here 7 Partitions per AZ BUT in each partition you can place as many as required
2. Each partition is placed on dedicated Racks
3. In Partition placement group, you *can* decided to place your instance in specific partition but this is not possible in Spread placement group. For automatic distribution, you can select **Auto Distribution**
4. Here as well, dedicated hosts are not supported

#### Use cases

* Application (parallel) which is aware of partition topology e.g. Hadoop, Cassandra, HBase