# Networking Refresher

* Private Address available for use in each class are
  * 10.0.0.0/8 - Class A
  * 172.16.0.0/16 - 172.31.0.0/16 -Class B
  * 192.168.0.0/24 - Class C

Rule to remember : Bigger the prefix (/32, here only one IP), smaller then network. Smaller the prefix, bigger the network (/16 here 65,000 IPs)

## Custom VPC

* Required for Hybrid networking. Default VPC do not work
* Over and above Primary IPv4 CIDR block you can create additional 5 CIDR Block
  * max /28 and min /16
* IPv6 /56 block - you can bring your own IPv6 or AWS can provide it.
* DNS comes via Route 53
* DNS address is always fixed i.e. based IP + 2
* **enableDNSSupport** (enabled by default)
* **enableDNShostnames** - to get DNS name for Public IPv4 (should be enabled.)
* Subnet and AZ have one to one relationships. Subnet once allocated to the AZ cannot be changed.
* CIDR are unique per region and cannot overlap with other AZs
* 5 IP Address in subnet are reserved by AWS
  * 0 no one can use
  * 1 is used as Gateway
  * 2 is for DNS
  * 3 is reserved
  * 4 is 255 a broadcast
* DHCP Option sets - only one at a time. cannot be edit, you can only change.
* controls DNS, NTP
* IPv4 and IPv6 public address per subnet

Reference: https://www.site24x7.com/tools/ipv4-subnetcalculator.html for subnetting things

## VPC Router

* first this not a thing you see, you rather configure route table and router takes this to route table
* Highly available, nothing to worry from HA perspective.
* route has a link in every subnet which is network+1 (stated above)
* By default all subnets are attached to Main route table.
* Traffic between subnet simple works, there is nothing that stops them from working but then Security group spoils the FUN
* Subnet can have only one route table associated. (it is one to one relationship like Father-Son), but father (router) can have many Sons :)
* Higher prefix value, higher the priority that route has
  * e.g /16 has less priority compare /32 (single IP)
* Main route table cannot be edited. It is always there.
* Target defines where the traffic should. In case of Main route table, it is always Local

I found it bit confusing that there is no source or destination in route table. Here the flow is --destination prefix matched, once match is done then it knows which target to use. e.g. 10.16.0.0/ is destination and to reach there you have to use Target "local"

### Internet Gateway (IGW)

* is regionally resilient service
* you can attached either one 1 IGW or none to the VPC. It is either or none. It is **kind** of one to one relationship but really. IGW can live with VPC and vice versa.

### Bastion Host/Jump Host

* It is same as jump host
* A instance in a public subnet