# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 06.12.2020

## Network ACL

* Do not call it NA-KALS. It is Network ACL :)
* Do you need to restrict traffic **between** the subnets, then you should think of Network ACL.
* Network ACL applies to subnet, think of it as Firewall. But stateless.
* Network ACL can explicit allow and deny traffic
* Rule 100 (from inbound and outbound) can be removed to block all traffic in and out of VPC.
* Network ACL are stateless
  * these are seen as two different streams (request and response), So for every stream you need different inbound and outbound rule
* Network ACL can refer to only Networks, Ports and Protocols **but not AWS resources**
* Subnets needs in all cases Network ACL (Network ACL are mandatory). It could be the default Network ACL or custom Network ACL.

## Security Groups

* Security Groups are applied to the Network interface card (ENI).
* Network card interface are bound to single AZ.
* Security groups control in bound and outbound traffic. (Stateful)
* No explicit DENY. Anything which is not there in security group is by default assumed to be denied.
* A security group acts as a virtual firewall for your instance to control inbound and outbound traffic. When you launch an instance in a VPC, you can assign up to **5 security groups** to the instance. 
* Security groups act at the instance level, not the subnet level. Therefore, each instance in a subnet in your VPC can be assigned to a different set of security groups.
* If you launch an instance using the Amazon EC2 API or a command line tool and you don't specify a security group, the instance is automatically assigned to the default security group for the VPC. 
* But If you launch an instance using the Amazon EC2 console, you have an option to create a new security group for the instance.
* Security groups and network ACLs don't filter traffic to or from link-local addresses (169.254.0.0/16) or AWS reserved IP Address (5 of them, remember?)
* Similarly VPC Flowlogs do not capture traffic to and from these addresses.

## Network ACL and Security Groups

* Network ACL can explicitly deny but Security groups cannot. So, both can be used in combination
* Network ACL cannot be used in situation, where traffic rules are required to be applied for AWS resources.
* Network ACL are more suitable for subnet protections and explicit denies
* Always designed protection using Security groups unless above mentioned exceptions/Rules are required

## NAT and NAT GW

* Static NAT functionality is the one implemented by IGW
* NAT is many private IPs to single Public IP (unlike in IGW, where it is one private IP is mapped to one public IP)
* In other words entire CIDR is mapped to single IP. The use case - users accessing internet/downloading patches.
* You can also use EC2 as NAT GW but there is managed service provided by AWS which is referred as NAT GW
* NAT GW needs elastic IP
* NAT GW must be deployed in public subnet, routes added to point to IGW and associate subnet to the route table
* NAT GW is managed service and **AZ resilient**. This mean you must deploy NAT GW in each AZ.
* NAT GW is not free.
  * There is minimum duration charge per hour
  * Also, there is data volume charge
  * you can achieve up 45 Gbps bandwidth per GW. If you need more throughput, you can deploy more

### NAT GW or NAT GW on EC2

* When using EC2 as NAT device, remember to disable source and destination check on EC2 instance

#### Use cases for NAT GW

    * High availability
    * High Performance
    * Low Admin overhead
  
#### Use cases for EC2 on NAT

    * Low volume
    * test & development
    * Budgeted
    * EC2 instance choices e.g. you can use free tier
    * You can customized them, make them multi-purpose
  
### Key points

* NAT GW do not support Security Groups, you can instead use Network ACL to filter traffic.
* NAT GW on EC2 supports security groups
* IPv6 is by default internet. So NAT GW is not required for the instance which are using IPv6. IPV6 is by default Public IP address and have both ways access (in and out)
