# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 03.11.2020


## VPC Flowlogs

* Captures metadata but not data. For data capture, you need wireshark
* Metadata means - Source, destination IP, Source and destination ports, action and Protocol. Following are the protocol numbers observed in VPC flow logs
  * 1 = ICMP
  * 6 = UDP
  * 17 = TCP
* You can send/integrate it with Cloudwatch or S3
* VPC Flowlogs can be at VPC level, Subnet (within VPC) or at network interface level
* They are not realtime
* Following metadata is not captured by VPC Flowlogs
  * instance metadata (169.254.169.254)
  * DHCP
  * AWS NTP server
  * AWS DNS server
  * AWS Windows license server

## Egress only IGW for IPV6

* If want to have EC2 instance (which has only IPV6) and needs only **outgoing** Internet access for patches/Patching/internet then Egress IGW is the only option.
* You cannot use NAT GW as NAT is unaware of IPV6 functionality.
* :magnet: IGW is stateful. That means when the connection request is allowed on specific portis initiated by EC2 instance, the response is automatically allowed.
* Architecture wise, IGW (be it IPV4 or IPv6) both are same. e.g. High availability across AZ
* This solution makes sense only when instance is configured only IPv6.

## VPC Endpoints -Gateway

* Gateway Endpoint basically allows EC2 instance access to S3 buckets and DynamoDB without going via IGW. This is required when you have isolated VPC and you do not want these EC2 instance any public connectivity.
* When you have S3 and DynamoDB. Strictly for these services.
* This endpoint is VPC object. This means it is highly available across the AZs. So we create a VPC Endpoint Gateways associated with specific VPC
* Though you allocate endpoint to specific subnet but it is still Highly available across AZ
* Prefix list is added to the route table of your desired subnet. (?)
* Only available within the region where it is created.
* Gateway Endpoint cannot be accessed outside of the VPC.
* So you configure bucket to be accessed only via Gateway Endpoint -making this bucket super secret.
* **Endpoint Policy** - control what resources can be accessed (for s3 this is bucket policy)
* :electric_plug: When you hear Gateway Endpoint think of Internet Gateway. As these are both high available. You do not have to worry about HA.
* :electric_plug: Gateway (default gateway) is always associated with routing. So, when you hear gateway endpoint, think of Prefix list (which are basically routes added by AWS for you)
  
## VPC Endpoint - Interface

* It is ENI inserted into AZ. This is not Highly available by default. So for High availability, ENI needs to be inserted into each AZ
* Now this is used for everything else except S3 and DynamoDB
* Access control
  * who can access via security groups
  * what can be access is vai endpoint policy
* Only IPv4 and TCP
* Uses privatelink
* Endpoint - through DNS endpoints
* Zonal DNS Name
* Regional DNS Name
* Application can use it either of these DNS endpoints.
* Private DNS overrides the default DNS for services. (review the video for more information)
* :electric_plug: - when you see ENI, try to think of Security Group and DNS. Since traditional NIC is not high available (you can use this memory trick to remember if it is HA or no)

## VPC Peering

* Encrypted connection between two VPC.
* Only between two VPC. That is it
* No Transitive (if you know AD Trust relation and its transitiveness)
* You need routing to be configured per subnet level and you can further filter the traffic using Network ACL and Security Group
* It can be done in the same region or different region (read this as Inter-region VPC peering)
  * but when in same region, you can refer Security Group across the peers
* It can be done between different AWS Account
* Peering connection is done using AWS Secure network and for cross region AWS Global network is used.
