# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 18.12.2020

## Direct Connect

* Direct connectivity (1 Gbps or 10 Gbps). This is not really direct. You only get a port in AWS Router
* You have to get your router inside DX location or ask partner (ISP) to do it and you get connect via Partner router. So there are physically two connections
  * one between AWS to your own router/Partner router. This is referred as cross connect
  * second between your router (in AWS premisis) or partner router and your premises. This connection takes weeks or months. 
* 1 Gbps (1000-base-LX) and 10GBASE-LR - single mode fiber
* So your router should support VLANS and BGP

### VIFs (Virtual Interface)

* Virtual Interfaces are simple Virtual connections running on top of **physical DX** connection
* Each VIF has VLAN and BGP (?)
* There are two types of VIFs
  * Public - provide connectivity to AWS public services e.g. S3, DynamoDB, SNS, SQS  etc.
  * Private - are associated with VGW to establish connectivity between AWS and on premises infrastructure. There is one to one relationship between VPC and VGW. But you can have many Private VIFs

### Important Points

* 4 x 10 = 40 Gbps aggregate bandwidth
* Consistent low latency. No internet used for this
* Connection is not encrypted
* Data flowing over Public VIFs can be encrypted. This is done by establishing VPC tunnel inside DX connection. So when we create a VPC connection, it actually creates 2 endpoints inside AWS public zone.

## Transit Gateway

* Like another Network Object (IGW, IPv6 egress IGW or VGW) is highly available within region
* Network Transit hub
* Attachments are how various network components e.g. VPN GW, VPN and Direct Connect can communicate with each other.
* You can also peer transit gateway -make global mesh network
* Can be done across account or across the region
* Can be shared using AWS RAM
* You need interface in each AZ i.e. when you say I want to connect two VPC using transit GW. You can get more granular and decide which subnets/AZ should be part be allowed to talk to remote VPC
* Default route table association and Default route table propagation checkbox selections, automatically add route in the transitive GW. But we must also add route inside each subnet to allow them to talk to each other via Transit GW.

## Storage Gateway

* It is virtual appliance deployed on-premises infrastructure
* Considered as **extension** of your datacenter for File and Block storage
* You can also use this as virtual tape library and tape out our back ups there.
* And you normally go for this solution, when your on-premises applications needs access to these files

### Storage Gateway Mode

* Tape Gateway Mode (VTL)
  * Virtual Tape but behind the scene S3 and Glacier. Here your Tape server communicates with the virtual applicance over iSCSI. Then Virtual appliance is connected to S3 endpoint over https. Active tapes are stored on S3 and archived tapes are moved to S3 Glacier.
  * Virtual Tape can be from 100 GB till 5TB ( 1 PB across 1500 virtual tapes )
* File Mode (SMB and NFS)
  * Behind the scene S3
  * On premises, endpoint communicate with Virtual appliance over SMB or NFS. Then virtual appliance connect to the S3 Public endpoint (of course over https). If you have enable Lifecycle policies on this S3 bucket, you can significantly reduce the cost. :magnet: It is also possible to integrate it with Active Directory for file authorization.

* Volume Mode (Block Storage)

  * Behind the scene S3 and EBS Snapshot

* Volume Gateway (Storage mode)

  * Best for DR and Migration purpose
  * :magnet: Primary copy is on Virtual appliance and secondary copy in AWS
  * Data is **asynchronously** copied to Storage GW endpoint but converted into EBS snapshot
  * 16TB x 32 volumes = 512 TB
  * Endpoint access it over iSCSI

* Volume Gateway (Cached mode)

  * same as File Mode BUT we are here extending capacity into AWS
  * :magnet: Primary data is in AWS
  * Only frequently accessed data is stored on virtual appliance
  * 32TB x 32 = 1 PB
  * S3 Backed storage but backup is stored as EBS snapshot
