# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 29.11.2020 | Next Revision: 02.12.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------

## BGP - Border Gateway Protocol

* Now this is like explaining Harry Potter (all seven books) in 18 minutes
* required for Dynamic VPN and Direct Connect
* AS = Autonomous System. From BGP Perspective it is black box. It is only interesting in traffic going in and out of internet
* ASN are 16 bits in length and varies from 0 -65535. AS 64512 - 65534 is private use only.
* Ports on TCP:179, it Vector path protocol. It choose what it thinks is best/shortest path. It is called as ASPath
* AS not automatic. You have manually peer with other AS.
* iBGP = is within BGP (i here is internal)
* eBGP = between BGP (e here is external)
* AS only give preference path which are direct and not based on the link speed or hops
* You can manually influence by adding path pre-pending and make look direct path longer.
* BGP is highly dynamic in nature and can change the routes as you change the routing tables.

## AWS Site to Site VPN

* Quickest way to establish connection between on-premises and AWS
* Terminology
  * Virtual Private Gateway (VGW) - this is target for the subnet who wish to connect to on premises network
  * Customer Gateway (CGW) - logically configuration of your premises device
* VPC connection is established between VGW and CGW

### Virtual Private Gateway (VGW)

* It is highly available same as IGW. 
  * It has endpoints made available in each AZ (normally two I guess). These are physical endpoints

* Two Types of VPN options available
  * **Static** : Static routes are configured on both sides (on premises and AWS). Simple to configure and can be done any routes.
  * **Dynamic** : you need BGP on premises (BGP on VPN devices). When you need HA and traffic distribution. Here state of the link is communicated between VGW and CGW. Route propagation (?). Here routes from either side are automatically added and you do not need to worry of adding routes every time new subnet is created.

### Design Considerations

* Speed limit of 1.25 Gbps
* IPSec tunnel is established over Internet. So latency and throughput could influence user/applications experience and performance
* There is one to one relationship between VGW and VPC
