# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 29.11.2020 | Next Revision: 02.12.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------

## FSx For Windows

* Of course only for Windows as EFS is not supported for windows.
* This is simplest example of AWS service. Here you simple get Windows File Server as service. You create shares that is all. High availability, replication, OS Patching and maintenance is taken care by AWS.
* It is same as RDS in following ways
  * It can be single AZ (but data is replicated within AZ, making it resilient service with AZ)
  * It can be multi-AZ
  * Backup - both automatic or manual
* It is full managed, you only create shares.
* It can be run on AWS or also on-premises
* Fully integrated with AWS Managed MS AD or On-premises
* Performance: 8 MBps - 2 GBps, <1 ms latency and 100k IOPS

### Keywords

* Volume shadow copies (VSS)
* DFS
* de-duplication
* KMS at rest and can be enforced also in transit.
* Native integration with MS AD, Windows Permission model
* SMB

## FSx for Lustre

* It is kind of opposite of FSx for Windows because
  * it is supports only Linux
  * it is supports POSIX file system permissions
* It is used for HPC, Machine Learning, Big Data
* High throughput 100 Gbps and sub millisecond latency
* Accessible via VPN or Direct Connect (at least it took time for me to realize. You need VIFS for this, probably a public VIFS)

### Deployment Types

**Scratch** : It reminds me of scratch partition in ESXi. It is temporary. So this is also temporary but high performance. But no replication.

**Persistent**: It is highly available within AZ. Long term and is self-healing.

FSx for Lustre is basically loading all its data in S3 and when the processing is required, the data is lazily loaded into Lustre. It is S3 linked repository. This linking is automatic. But data is not returned back to S3. If you want data to be copied or replicated to S3, you need to do this manually using hsm_archive

### Terms

* MST - Metadata Stored on Targets. Metadata includes file permissions, timestamps and names. These are stored on MST
* OST - Object Storage Targets. Data is stored here. Data is stored on multiple OST. Each OST is 1.17 TiB in size

Performance is based on size of the file system e.g.

**Scratch** - we have 200 MB/s per TiB of storage

**Persistent** - we receive different performance level in speed e.g. 50 MB/s, 100 MB/s and 200 MB/s per TiB

In both cases, we get burst up to 1300 MB/s (credit system)

Architecture wise, you have VPC defined and the endpoint (instance) should have lustre client installed to access lustre filesystem. Lustre filesystem will be defined in another VPC and it will presented to us as ENI. Since lustre is only AZ resilient, so you get only one ENI.

In both deployment model, you can easily use AWS standard backup function. The one which takes backup and retains for 35 days. So even if the you deploy Persistent mode, you always have a backup to restore.

### Keywords:

* Sage, High performance
* POSIX, Machine Learning
