# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 29.11.2020 | Next Revision: 02.12.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------

## Directory Services

* Fully Managed. Do not have to worry about High availability.
* Instances are deployed across AZ
* AWS Workspace needs Directory Services
* Isolated to VPC.

This Directory Services comes in different form

1. Simple AD Mode (Isolated)

   No Microsoft but Samba V4 implementation. It supports almost all AWS services which needs Directory Services (e.g. AWS Workspace or AWS Chime)
   But this is limited to 500 users in small mode or maximum 5000 users in Large mode. This AD mode does not integrate with on-premises AD.

2. Microsoft AD (Integrated, actual implementation of AD)

   Windows 2012 R2 AD implementation. Full MS AD implementation. That means you can do schema extension or install MS Sharepoint. You can also establish a trust relationship between On-premises and AWS managed. Since it is trust relationship, there is no dependency on premises AD. The connection must be over SSL VPN or Direct Connect

3. AD Connect (Proxy)

   There is no AWS AD. All authentication is redirected to on-premises AD. Only dependency with this method is, If your VPN Connection  broken or unavailable then services on AWS cannot get authenticated. It is recommended when you plan to use one or two service in AWS which needs Directory services. And there is requirement not to put any security credentials in AWS

## Data Sync

* Data transfer to and from AWS
* Huge scale migration
* Copies metadata e.g. permissions/timestamps
* Built in data validation
* Per Agent speed 10 Gbps. You can have multiple agents but max 100 GB per day
* Bandwidth management using limits
* Incremental and schedule transfer options
* Compression and encryptions
* Automatic recovery from transit error
* AWS Service integration e.g. S3, EFS (NAS), FSx
* Pay as you Go Model

### Source and destination Endpoints

* At source, you can have Virtual appliance talking to your NFS/SMB. These are only protocol you can talk to premises storage.
* At destination (via AWS Datasync Endpoint), can be integrated with
  * S3
  * EFS
  * FSx for Windows

1. Task is where you define
   1. What data to be synced?
   2. Source and destination
   3. Schedule

2. Agent
   1. Deployed on premises
   2. Which reads data using NFS / SMB protocols

### Keywords

* scheduled transfer with bandwidth throttling
* reliable transfer of large amount of data
* Bi-directional transfer
* automatic re-tries
* compression
* electronic method
* More than one AWS endpoint (S3, EFS, FSx)
