# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 28.11.2020 | Next Revision: 01.12.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------

## Database Refresher

SQL = Structured Query Language

RDMS = Relational Database Management System

Both, SQL and RDMS are used interchangeably.

### RDBMS

* Schema is everything. It is defined once and that is it. All relations are formed between the tables based on this schema
* At the very basic level
  * every database has a table
  * every table has rows and column
  * every column has attributes
  * Column = Attributes
  * every table must have unique value - referred to use Primary Key.
  * you can also create relationship between table e.g. joining table. There you have composite key (unique key of each tables)
  * Each attribute should have value and so is true for rows


### No SQL

* There is schema or no schema. In short, schema if defined, is relaxed.
* Relationships between the table is handled much different than RDBMS
* :toobox: When relationship between rows and column rapidly changes or between the tables, e.g. social media. Then NO SQL is the best.

#### Types of no SQL databases

##### Key-Value pair

* no tables
* no relationships between tables
* only requirement is that Key must be unique.
* :magnet: Keywords: In Memory caching. Simple requirements, simple or no structure.

##### Wide Column Database

* It has primary key and **optionally** Sort or Range Key
* Again here there is  no structure or schema. There are tables but not a really table where each column and row should have data. Here tables may have data or may not have.
* Here tables may have attributes, no attributes but it is no the requirement as in RDBMS
* Only strict requirement is to have primary key and it must be unique. You can optionally have sort key.
* DynamoDB is example of Wide Column Database

##### Document Databases

* Used to store and retrieve the documents
* Use cases can be : order database, collection database or contact databases, interact with deep attributes. 
* :toolbox: Data which changes over time (e.g. contact numbers) is good use case for the Document database

##### Row based databases

* Ideal for change, create and delete operations on table
* OLTP - Online Transaction Processing database is perfekt example
* But not good to query the rows in the table.

##### Column based databases

* opposite of Row database and ideal for OLAP.
* Redshift is Dataware house product which fits in this category
* For reporting, this is the best database

##### Graph Database

* Data and relationships between the data is stored in the database.
* complex relationship and social media
  