# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 05.12.2020

## Databases on EC2

### :toolbox: Use cases

 When you may need database on EC2

* Database is not available on AWS (Niche database)
* Database and OS combination is unavailable on AWS
* You or application owner needs either access to the database or OS itself
* Specific Architecture - replication, HA not available within AWS

### Limitation/consideration of Database on EC2

* Admin overhead in managing EC2 and database
* Backup inside the OS for database so the backup should be database aware
* EC2 and EBS are AZ resilient
* Replication needs database specific features to be enabled (e.g. log shipping or replication)
* Performance or optimization of both EC2 and Database needs special skills.

## Relational Database Service (RDS)

* It is not Database as a Service (DBaaS), because here unit of consumption is not database but database server
* So it EC2 instance with database installed on it and <ins>Managed by AWS</ins>.
  * To further emphasis this part, DB comes in db.m5 (general purpose), db.r5 (ram), db.t3 (burst), which is same as EC2 except that they are appended with **db**.
* Aurora is AWS's RDS offering.
* All popular databases are supported (you may call them database engine)
* It is like
  * database engine
    * then database instance on it (you can create one while provisioning, additional afterwards)
      * then tables inside the database
* CNAME refers to the name you can use to access the database (you cannot use IP Address)
* When you create an SQL Server DB instance, Amazon RDS creates an SSL certificate for it. The SSL certificate includes the DB instance endpoint as the Common Name (CN) for the SSL certificate to guard against spoofing attacks.
* If you want to force SSL, use the rds.force_ssl parameter. By default, the rds.force_ssl parameter is set to **false**. Set the rds.force_ssl parameter to true to force connections to use SSL. The rds.force_ssl parameter is static, so after you change the value, you must **reboot** your DB instance for the change to take effect.
* You can use the same tools to manage the database as you would do while manage these database on premises or on ec2-instance. e.g. to manage MS SQL database, you can use SSMS
* RDS by default is AZ Resilient service. For High availability you need AZ Resilient i.e.Multi-AZ
* With RDS, comes EBS and with EBS comes
  * GP2
  * IO1
  * Magnetic (it is purely there for compatibility reason,which are configured historically on magnetic disk)
* You have to pay for storage. The cost model is same as EBS which is GB/month
* To access RDS instance, you need Security group. The Security group is assigned to the RDS instance.

### Steps to create RDS

* First, you create a subnet group. The Subnet group needs
  * VPC
    * AZ
      * subnet in the AZ
* Second, security group for the RDS
  * You create a security group in the VPC of your choice (to repeat: security groups are associated with VPC)
  * In that security group, you create inbound rule, to allow port 3306 (varies per database engine) for the security group where your EC2 instances are running.
* Third, create RDS Instance with following settings
  * Database Engine - MariaDB and its version
  * Templates e.g. Production, development or test and Free tier
  * DB Instance Identifier - (what is this?)
  * DB Instance Size
  * Storage Type
  * Database administrator
  * Connectivity - VPC, Subnet group
  * AZ Preference (this is same as EC2 thing, if you remember)
  * Database name
  * There are many other options, not described here. So not covering.

When you enable IAM database authentication, you don’t need to use a password when you connect to a DB instance but instead, **you use an authentication token.**