# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 28.11.2020 | Next Revision: 01.12.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------

## Multi AZ RDS

* Coming from windows world, this is 2-node SQL Server AlwaysON Cluster
* Data is replicated synchronously between AZ
* Secondary Node is has its own storage.
* Here 50% of capacity is wasted, what this means?
  * well, the secondary is just waiting for primary to failover
  * secondary cannot be used for anything
  * e.g. you cannot access secondary node using CNAME or any other means
  * cannot be used as read-replica or to scale read operations
* It is not free tier
* You can failover manually when you want
  * to software maintenance
  * troubleshoot
  * change instance type
* :gift_heart: Backups are taken from the secondary Instance.
* Keywords: Synchronous, Same region
* :magnet: Multi AZ is not about performance but about High availability, software maintenance or Backup

## RDS Backup, snapshot and Restore

* Automatic Backup are done by AWS on S3 Buckets. But these S3 buckets are not visible to us.
* Whether it is snapshots or backup they are always taken from Secondary RDS Instance.
* Now snapshots can be done manually. This means, you can take as many times you want and retain them as long as you want. AWS do not control this at all.
* You define the backup/Maintenance windows when to start backup.
* Transaction logs backups are taken every 5 minutes to S3.
* Automated backups are retained 35 days. You can configure between 0 - 35 days. 0 means, it is disabled.
* Do not confuse the snapshot restore as with VMware Snapshot. When you restore the snapshot, it  restores the brand new RDS instance. So this means, you need to change endpoint in your application which is using this database.
* So when you restore snapshot you have to follow the steps which are as good as creating new instance e.g. instance class selections and other things.

### Restore

* When you restore backup, you restore from the snapshot. The snapshot restore time directly impact backup restore time (RTO).
* Automated backups can allow to restore to database specific point time using transaction logs
* But with manual backup, this cannot be the case. You have to manually replay transaction logs (?)
* Remember with snapshot, you also get protection against data corruption.

## RDS Read Replicas

* Keyword: Read replicas means asynchronous replication
* These replicas are separate CNAME/Endpoints
* Read replicas can be configured within the region or across the region
* 5 x Read Replica, can use to increase read performance both regional and globally.
* You can combine Read Replica and RDS Multi-AZ
  * Multi-AZ to increase availability, reduce impact on backup
  * Read Replica to increase your read performance and can increase your RTO (in other words, read replica can be promoted to read-write replica. But this cannot be reverted, only way is, you can create a Read replica out of newly convert read-write replica)
  * with read replica you can provide not only region but also global DR service
