# 22-11-2020 AWS SAA Exam Notes

## Amazon Aurora Architecture

* Mental Note : It is RDS offering from AWS
* It is combination of RDS - MultiAZ plus Read Replica
  * This means replica can be used for read operations
* It is basically cluster with
  * primary node
  * zero or more replica mode
  * Shared Storage (i.e. across AZ)

### Ok, litte bit about shared storage

* It is based on SSD and each AZ has 2 copies of the data. Might confuse you, these are storage copies. So it could have happen that you can have more than 2 replica per AZ.
* Replication occurs at storage level
* 64 TiB (RDS has 16 TiB limit)
* Storage is costed based on High water mark - this means if you have consumed 50 GB of storage, then you are charged for it. But in case you delete data and now your storage need is 40 GB but you are still charged for 50 GB
* There is no concept of provisioned/allocated storage, you are charged only for what is consumed.
* Now there can be 15 copies of replica and these can be promoted to write.

There are two Types of endpoints

* Cluster Endpoint - Always points to primary and it used for write operation
* Read Endpoint - Point one or more replica in case you wish to distribute read operations. It has "ro" in its name to identify it.
* Custom Endpoint - you can also create custom endpoint.

#### Costing

* No Free tier
* you charged in seconds for compute, minimum charge for 10 minutes
* Over above Storage Cost/month and high water mark, you also pay IO cost per request
* If you have 100 GB of database, then 100 GB of backup data is included in the price. So get free backup unless your retention period or changes in data increases the backup storage requirements

### Special Features

* Backtrack or tight word is time machine. You can roll back your database any point in time. SO it increases both RPO and RTO
* Fast Cloning - Makes fast clone from the original database and refers/point back to original data. But makes new blocks when write requests are made on source or on the copied database.

### Some Additional Notes

* You can directly migrate the snapshots to Aurora. This allows you to select the different Engine. You restore the snapshot, you cannot select different Engine.
* When You are migrating database from RDS to Aurora you have to select ARN of the snapshot but while restoring the snapshot, you can simple put the name of the snapshot.
* Aurora is part of RDS, so if you search for Aurora in AWS Console, you may not find it :) (did not tried yet), i keep forgetting this thing. Worth noting down.
* When you create a snapshot of Aurora, you have to select writer identifier (is this standard procedure?)

## Aurora Serverless

* Aurora Provisioned is something we discussed above. Aurora serverless is same as Fargate. Everything is done for you. You only defined what you need in terms of
* ACU = Aurora capacity Units. You define Min and Max and everything else is taken care by AWS
* Pay as you go model, Charged per second basis
* Application connects to Aurora using Proxy fleet (fleet of EC2 instance, again you do not manage them)
* Since this is pay as go model, resource are allocated from the shared pool.
* When you migrate to Aurora serverless, then need snapshot taken from Aurora Provisioned. While restoring snapshot, you can select "Capacity Type" as serverless and then define Minimum ACU and Maximum ACU

### Use Cases

* Normally same as any Pay as you go model. To repeat
  * When incoming load is unpredictable
  * when application usage pattern is new. Normally happens when the application is newly developed
  * when application usage pattern fairly unpredictable e.g. sometimes on weekend but not every weekend
  * development and testing, here you defined the cluster to pause if there is no load. In this case, cluster pauses and you are billed only for the storage.
  * Also for Multi-tenant architecture.
  * There is setting to pause the cluster when for consecutive minutes no activity is happening
