# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 05.12.2020

## Aurora Global Databases

* This is completely different product than Aurora Provisioned and Aurora Serverless.
* Here you can create a secondary cluster in different region. In this cluster you have 16 copies of the database.
* You can have maximum 5 secondary regions
* Replication happens at storage layer, with 1 sec delay
* You can promote any region to RW cluster but only one is possible and not reversible.
* Direction of replication is one way only.
* Use cases
  * Global DR with low latency

## Aurora Multi-Master

* Drawbag of single master is - it takes time to promote read replica to write replica
* In Aurora (single master) There is dedicated end point for reads
* Here there is no cluster endpoints. Application is responsible to connect to specific node in the cluster or one ore more nodes in the cluster. This also means there is no "Fleet proxy" or load balancer in front of the cluster.
* Since any node can send write request, there is a concept called Quorum. Here the Quorum is required for write to succeed.
* Very important aspect. (I asked a question to myself, if this FT). It is not really BUT it can be as long as Application is intelligent enough to query/write multiple nodes at a time. To describe this in more detailed. If Application tries to write on nodeA and fails, then application should **retry** to write on nodeB. This logic should be in the application.

## Database Migration Services (DMS)

* It is managed service
* Terminology
  * replication instance
    * here you define tasks (replication tasks)
    * Different types tasks are
      * Full Load (full copy of database)
      * Full Load + CDC (full copy plus differential copy)
      * Only CDC (Only differential copy. Suitable when you done migration of data using 3rd party tool)
  * Source Endpoint
  * Destination Endpoint
* One of the endpoint must be in AWS
* SCT - Schema Conversion tool.
* Keywords: Zero downtime, little downtime.
