# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 28.11.2020 | Next Revision: 01.12.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------

## Route53 Public hosted zone

* Public hosted zone has it records published on Public DNS Server. In this case AWS Public DNS Server.
* When you register a domain with AWS and also hosts the DNS on AWS, you get 4 DNS Servers.
* These 4 names servers are distributed globally
* There is monthly fee for hosting the zone. Just to be clear, you pay for domain name and plus you pay this fee. There is also a fee for any DNS queries
* So in summary, you register domain and then you configure that domain to Route53. In this case, route53 becomes authorative for the zone

## HealthChecks Concept

* without healths check there is potential for outage. Without health checks, DNS Client will have no idea that particular web server is down or not serving.
* health checks occur periodically. By default 30 seconds.
* AWS has global checkers which checks the health of the service
* Healthchecks are enabled with DNS Record but they are different service from DNS.

### Healthchecks Type

* Healthcheck occurs every 30 seconds (might have potential delay 5 seconds) or every 10 seconds (comes at price but might be able to query the endpoint more than once within 1 seconds)
* Health types are of the following types
  * TCP - within 10 seconds response  is expected by your service
  * HTTP/HTTPS - 200 or 300 return code within 2 seconds
  * HTTP/HTTPS with String - same as above, in addition you have choice to return the string in the body of the response. This response when matches, then it is considered health. The string is limited to 5120 bytes

#### Endpoint Checks

* Endpoint checks to check the endpoint health (here you can decide the health check type mentioned above, but in the demo lesson you get more information on this. Do Watch again.)
* CloudWatch Alarm check - checks which react to CloudWatch Alarm check
* Check of Checks -called as calculated checks

## Route53 Routing Policies

### Simple Routing Policy

* one A record associated with one or more ipaddress. If one address is not responding then there is 30% chance of bad customer experience. Here client side routing works. That means when three IP Addresses are returned to the client, it used which ones to use.

### Failover Routing Policy

* It is simple primary and secondary node concept. If primary fails, secondary takes over. Now remove "node" and replace with Web server. That is it.
* You create one record point two different ip addresses. As obvious it can be, here you have only two possibilities (primary and secondary).
* But when the primary fails, secondary does not become primary. It remains secondary. If this fails, then there is no away to know if the service is down or not. 

### Weighted Routing Policy

* It is active-active
* requests are routed based on weight
* Use cases could
  * Migration
  * testing new website/frontpage

### Latency Based Routing Policy

* provides the services to the dns query as close as possible from the user location based on the latency. It check location of the user.

### Geographic Routing Policy

* At the surface it may appear same as Latency based. But it is used to provide localized content to the user.
* Here you can select
  * Country
  * Continent
  * Default
* when the services in country and continent is unable, then it goes to the default
* So you decide what content to be made available to the user, based on the geo location of the user.

### Multi-Value Routing Policy

* it is same as simple routing policy. But in this case, you can put health against each IP Address

## Private Hosted Zone

* Private hosted zone only works when they are associated with specific VPC. If you create a record and attached to custom VPC, then instance in default VPC cannot ping that a record. 
* You can associate both the default VPC and custom VPC with the private hosted zone. The advantage with this is, you can create
  * A record pointing to public IP Address in your Public hosted zone to your company webserver page
  * Another A record is created pointing to internal IP Address in your private hosted zone to your company webserver page
  * In this case, internal user will internal ip address to access the company internal page, internet users can use record on public hosted zone.
