# 08-11-2020 AWS SAA Exam Notes

Revised On: 05.12.2020

### Service Control Policies

* SCP are basically policy document written in JSON
* These can be either applied at root container or at OU level or individual AWS accounts
* Management Account/Master is not affected by SCP.
* Root accounts in member accounts are impacted by SCP. This means, even root account comes under the policy and might be limited in rights/privileges.
* SCP are policies and NOT permissions. They only tell you what you CAN or CANNOT do. They only put limits.
* SCP can restricted which region can access specific account or what EC2 instance sizes you can deploy.
* There are two ways you can implement SCP.
  * Put no limits. That means you can do everything you want in the account but only deny few services. This is the default and referred as Deny list or Full AWS access. Then you can restrict e.g. S3. Then no one access it.
  * You can limit everything and only allow limited services. This is admin overhead and possibility to block services unexpectedly. Chances of human error increases.
* Now, the permission model is same as IAM policy. If you do not have access to the resource, then it is implicit deny. This makes more sense when you have full access to AWS account and only allow explicit deny to the specific AWS services.
* To access AWS services, both IAM Policies and SCP are reviewed and combined policies end up in final permission

## CloudWatch Logs Introduction

* CW is public service. At its basic is collecting both monitoring and logging data.
* Any service which integrates with CW Logs can directly send data to it. Out of the box integration is available via
  * EC2
  * VPC Flow Logs
  * Lambda
  * CloudTrail
  * Route53
* Like any syslog solution, you can also filter entry in the logging data e.g. ssh connection established and send a alert notification via SNS
* Log Events are stored inside log streams. Log events are logs with time stamp and other normal logging data required to identify the problem.
* There is 1-to-1 relationships between logstream and source of the data
* We also have log groups. It will be clear with the example
  * e.g. ec1 and ec2 sends logs from /var/log/messages. For ec1 and ec2, dedicated log stream will be created. Both these log streams will be collected into a group called as Loggroups
  * Log retention and other configuration settings are stored in the log groups. So these apply to all the log streams grouped in to the log group.

## CloudTrail

* Logs anything and everything inside AWS. It logs all API actions
* CloudTrail event is a record of an activity in an AWS Account. JSON record of cloudTrail event is available. 
* Default retention period: 90 days
* The primary reason you create CloudTrail is to control the retention of the events and optionally can integrate with CloudWatch for further analysis or invoking Lamda functions.
* Enabled by default BUT only for management operations
* The main data logged in CloudTrail is Management Operations (admin activity or control plane activity) and Data Event.
* CloudTrail is regional service, but it log data across the regions but for this you should explicitly mention whether you want to log local logs or global logs.
* **IAM, STS and CloudFront are logged in us-east-1 region**. These types of events are called global service events.
* A Trail can be configured to be stored in S3 buckets when more than 90 days are needed. These are compressed JSON files. So space consumed is less.
* You can enable trail per region or you can enable single trail to log all events in all region include global services events.
* Cloudtrail can inject this data directly into cloudwatch Logs and cloud watch events. CW Logs filtering of event is much easier compared to storing them in S3 bucket
* There is something called as organization trail. It is enabled per OU. So it is single place to see all events/logs in the entire AWS accounts which are part of AWS Organization.
* CloudTrail is not realtime. There is 15 minutes delay.
* You can enable Encryption at Rest while creating Trail
* You can create trail from AWS CLI, Cloud Trail console and the Cloudtrail API.
