# 08-11-2020 AWS SAA Exam Notes

Revised On: 05.12.2020

## IAM Identity Policies

* Policies are attached to the IAM Identities
* IAM Identity Policies are also referred as Policy Document
* Written (always?) in JSON
* Structure of policy document is
  * Statement01 [{}], Statement02 [{}]
  * statement defines what is allowed or denied on specific **Resource**
  
``` JSON
  {
     statementid: nameofthestatement (optional field)
     Action: (list of actions allowed e.g. read, write, start and stop)
     Resource: (where these actions are required to performed)
     Effect: (whether to allow or deny)
     }
```

> **Note** :bellhop_bell: : Thing you should note is, action is not equal to allow or deny. Try to remember Action = what kind of Access you have. Effect = Permission (Allowed or denied). Action are API calls e.g. get, put and many others.

You can use wildcards in both Resources and Action
### Golden Rules of IAM Policies

* Explicit denies always Wins. Nothing can override it.
* When there is neither explicitly allow or deny on the resource, it is always denied

### IAM Identities

* Users, groups and Roles (*Roles is most critical thing to remember* :magnet:)
* When you need a long term access, when you need interaction with the resource and when you need a service account, then think of IAM User
* Remember the term "Authenticated Identity" - Identity which is authenticated (think of users and passwords).

### IAM Policies

* **AWS Managed Policy** - policy defined can be used by multiple identities. Low management overhead. Kind of standard templates created for you by AWS
* **Inline Policy** - can be applied only to specific identity and cannot be reused. These are used as exceptional allow or deny policies e.g. deny on specific resource for specific identity.
* **Customer Managed Policy** - You customized to meet your requirements. You create it and therefore you manage it.
* **Resource Policy** - These policies control access to the resource. In resource policy, you can attach IAM users and IAM roles BUT **not IAM Groups** (:magent:). So when you create a policy to restrict access to the bucket, you are creating resource policy.

## IAM Groups

* IAM Group has only one purpose. To organize users. Like AD groups, these groups do not have access to login into any of the AWS resources. So the concept more or less same but there are **many** exceptions.
* You can however attach IAM Policies (Customer Managed Policy, AWS managed policy and inline policy) to the group. And users can be part of multiple groups (max 10).
* Repeating: you cannot add IAM Group to the Resource Policy.

### Sizing considerations

* 5000 user limits in IAM. This is per Account limit. Hint: :magnet: IAM is a global service.
* IAM User can be member of 10 IAM Groups
* There is no limit on how many users can be part of the IAM Group
* There are no built in groups esp "everyone" like in Active Directory
* IAM Group nesting is not allowed. 
* There is soft limit of 300 groups per account but it can be increased
