# 08-11-2020 AWS SAA Exam Notes

Revised On: 18.12.2020

## IAM Roles

* When to use IAM Roles 
  * unknown user or unknown quantity of users
  * These account can be within AWS Account or outside AWS Account
  * Roles provide temporary access. 
  * These are same as access keys but they expire after sometime
  * Once they expire, service/identity must assume to use them.
  * Identities assume roles for short term. Executes and that is it.
  * IAM Roles can have two policies attached
    * Trust Policy
    * Permission Policy
  * STS stands for Secure Token Service
    * AWS STS supports open standards like Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0, with which you can use Microsoft AD FS to leverage your Microsoft Active Directory. You can also use SAML 2.0 to manage your own solution for federating user identities.
  * STS:AssumeRole (role assumption)
  * > **Note:** Every time the identity assumes roles, permission is checked. If the permission is there, then resource can be accessed. If the permission is changed, then resource cannot be accessed. The change in permission is quite quick/Dynamic or immediately effective. So if your application is caching credentials, then it will fail.
  * Almost all AWS Services uses IAM Role e.g. Lamda Function needs a execution Role. Point to note here is - Lamda is not IAM identity, it is service. The execution role **trust** Lamda function. 
* Think of AD Identity federation especially when user count is more 5000 users
* Web Identity federation e.g. google, Apple and FB e.g. mobile applications
  * With web identity federation, you don’t need to create custom sign-in code or manage your own user identities. Instead, users of your app can sign in using a well-known identity provider (IdP) —such as Login with Amazon, Facebook, Google, or any other OpenID Connect (OIDC)-compatible IdP, receive an authentication token, and then exchange that token for temporary security credentials in AWS that map to an IAM role with permissions to use the resources in your AWS account. Using an IdP helps you keep your AWS account secure because you don’t have to embed and distribute long-term security credentials with your application.


* When accessing resources in different AWS Accounts
  
### Trust Policy

* Trust policy can refer following identities/services
  * Identity in the same AWS Account
  * Identity in the another AWS Account
  * AWS Services
  * Anonymous users
  * 3rd Party FB, Google and etc

## AWS Organizations

* When managing multiple AWS Account.
* No Management overhead
* Organization is not created in a specific account
* But the account used to create Organization is referred as Management Account/**Master Account**
* When member accounts becomes part of Organization, they are referred as **member accounts**
* Organization can have one and only one management account and zero or more member accounts
* Organization (like DNS) is inverted Tree. It is referred as Organization Root. Organization root is container to hold master and member accounts and **most important** they can have another organization within. (In other words, this container is empty.) These are referred as Organization Unit. This OU holds master account and member accounts. So it can become complex organization
* Biggest benefits of Organization is about consolidated billing. This means individual billing methods are removed from the member accounts. Billing account is also referred as Payer account. Also, this is bit clear now. In case not, you get a single bill for all accounts.
* Due to consolidation, there is also possibility to earn credits as all AWS accounts are considered as single Account and resource consumption is billed as whole
* Service control policies (SCP) are another benefits of organization. These policies controls what services can or cannot be consumed in specific account.
* You can not only invite existing account but also can create new AWS Account (with one requirement, which is one email address). In later case, there is no invite procedure and request approval required. This also means **OrganizationAccountAccessRole** is automatically created here.
* Here IAM roles are used heavily. You do not have to create IAM user in this account. Everything can be managed using roles.
* When you do role switch, behind the scene it is actually assumes role
  * For this you need to create a role by name **OrganizationAccountAccessRole** (OA-AR) and give the master account (you need account ID) permission on this role
  * Switch Role (kind of shortcut under username drop down) is stored in the browser. If the cookies are disabled in the browser, then the history and shortcut is lost.

* When you have two accounts to manage, then cross account management would be suitable but multiple account/scalable solution AWS organization is more suitable
