# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 25.11.2020 | Next Revision: 28.11.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------

## EC2 Architecture and Resilience

Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https://learn.cantrill.io/) 

* EC2 instances are VMs
* They run either on dedicated host or shared hosts
* Dedicated Hosts are dedicated to you, do not pay for the instances you run on them. There is limitations on which instance you run on them.
* EC2 is AZ resilient. 
* EC2 has following parts/services
  * Elastic Network Interface (ENI) -AZ resilient
  * Instance Store (local HDD) -AZ resilient
  * Elastic Block Storage (EBS) -AZ resilient
* If you provision different types of instance, they may end up on different HOSTS


### Instance Start or restart difference

* When you stop the instance and start it again, it restarts on another HOST. If the Public IP is allocated to this host, it is also changed,
* When you restart the instance, then it restarts on same HOST. (does the public IP change?)

### Use Cases :toolbox: of EC2

* do you need a long running compute?
* Do you have monolith application e.g. web, db and app
* Do you have bursty workload or steady state 
* Do you need OS to run the application
* Are you migrating workloads to AWS (by the way, this can get very fast expensive.)

### EC2 Instance Type

* When you select instance, you influence
  * RAM, CPU, Local Storage Capacity & its Type (GP2 or SSD)
  * But you also select whether you need compute or RAM heavy
  * Instance type also decides the Storage and Network Bandwidth
  * System Architecture (ARM, x86) or Vendor (intel/AMD)
  * GPU Features and additional features

### EC2 Categories

5 categories in general

* **General Purpose** : Default and general requirements
* **Compute Optimized** : Media, HPC, Machine learning
* **Memory Optimized** : database workload e.g. in memory
* **Accelerated Computing** : GPU, Field Programmable Gate Arrays. Is niche category.
* **Storage Optimized** : When random or sequential IOs are required

### EC2 Types

Decoding EC2 instances. Always use latest instance. Two reasons you may not use latest instances could be 1. instance type is not available in your region, 2. you need to do rigorous testing before using new one

* First alphabet is - Instance Type
* Second alphabet is generation
* R5dn.8xlarge (dn are additional capabilities)
* 8xlarge is the instance size. It varies from micro till 8xlarge

Please [Refer Image](https://github.com/preetamzare/MyAWSSAA-Notes/blob/master/Virtualization_Basics/EC2-InstanceTypes.png) for further understanding
