# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 06.12.2020

## Storage in AWS

Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https://learn.cantrill.io/) 

### Elastic Block Storage (EBS)

* It is block storage (can be mounted) and it is primarily used for Booting OS
* It is AZ resilient
* Different Storage Types & Characteristics
  * HDD
  * SSD
  * IOPS
  * Throughput
* It is charged GB/month

### Disk types

* General Purpose **SSD** (GP2) - *focus IOPS*
  * **Baseline Performance**: 3 IOPS/GiB, 16,000 Max IOPS (minimum 100 IOPS), this is per Volume
  * **Limits**: Maximum volume size 16 TiB. Throughput: 250 MiB/s. **With Nitro**, you 80,000 IOPS  and 2375 MB/s _**per instance**_
* Provisioned IOPS **SSD** (io1) - *focus IOPS*
  * **Baseline Performance**: 50:1 IOPS ratio compared (3:1), 64000 Max IOPS, 1000 MiB/s
  * Are much more suitable to meet the needs of I/O-intensive database workloads such as MongoDB, Oracle, MySQL, and many others.
  * Per instance: 2375 MB/s, 80,000 IOPS
  * Use case: latency sensitive Databases
  * Multi-attach feature.
  * Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1) volumes are designed to meet the needs of I/O-intensive workloads, particularly database workloads, that are sensitive to storage performance and consistency. 
  * Unlike gp2, which uses a bucket and credit model to calculate performance, an io1 volume allows you to **specify a consistent IOPS** rate when you create the volume.

* Throughput Optimized **HDD** (st1) - *focus Throughput* [remember T is for throughput]
  * **Baseline Performance**: 40 MB/s per TiB, 250 MB/s burst and maximum 500 MB/s
  
> :electric_plug: Maximum Speed of LKW is 40 KM/hr (of course on paper)

* Cold **HDD** (sc1) - *focus throughput* [remember c is for Cold]
  * **Basline Performance**: 12 MB/s per TiB, 80 MB/s burst and max 250 MB/s

#### Common characteristics of ST1 and SC1

* Minimum size 500 GiB till 16 TiB
* :magnet: Not for boot volume 

### Use cases

* Read and Write Large Block sizes in sequential way
* Media processing, large throughput, no Random IOs
* Big data, data warehouse, log processing or anything which has sequential access patterns

> :electric_plug: Since LKW carries huge load, it always go slow. Since they go slow, they have to stay in Queue. Here queue means Sequential.
