# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 25.11.2020 | Next Revision: 28.11.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------
Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https://learn.cantrill.io/)

## Instance Store

* Non-persistent by nature.
* :magnet: Can be attached only during the launch
* Block storage, only attached to EC2 host
* Highest performance of all in AWS
* As long as instance is on same Host, instance store data is not lost, but instance can move to different host under following conditions
  * Host undergoes maintenance
  * instance is stopped and started (normally happen when you resize EC2 instance)
* No of instance volumes you get and size & Performance of Instance depends upon size of EC2 instance you select
  * some support HDD, SSD and NVE
  * Price is included in the instance price.
  * By default encryption at rest is enabled.

## Comparing instance Store and EBS

EBS | Instance Store
--- | --------------
Performance requirement is below 80,000 IOPS or 2375 MiB/S | Performance requirement is above
Persistent Storage which is non-replaceable | non-persistent Storage (but high performance, which can be discarded or ignored after processing)
Additional Costs | comes free of cost, assuming you are selecting right instance type
Database files can kept on EBS | tempDB (pagefile) can be kept here
You can take a backup using snapshot | Is it possible here (?)
Multi-attach feature (io1) | Multi-attach Not possible

### EBS Snapshots

* Snapshots are Backup. It helps in copying data between availability zone.
* It is first time - full and the later only changes are added. So at any point in time, you have data at the time you have taken snapshot.
* Now snapshots are stored on S3. And S3 is regionally resilient service, you could also simple restore the snapshot to different AZ and also to different Region
* You are charged only for the volume used and not for allocated e.g. for 40 GB disk only 10 GB is used, then snapshot consumes only 10 GB of data.

### Snapshots Restore

* Now restore is done immediately But all blocks are not immediately restored. This means, data is copied from S3 to EBS as and when blocks are read. You can force to read all blocks (it is free of cost) or can use a feature called as Fast Snapshot Restore (FSR).
* FSR is not free. There is limit of 50 per region. When you restore 4 FSR in four region, then you have 46 left to be used. In other words, FSR are set per AZ
* Anything which is added or change in the original volume is considered as new data. So you are only charged for the changed data. e.g. if the first snapshot was 10 GB, then you add 2 GB, then second snapshot is charged only for 2 GB. What unclear is, if there is change of 2 GB data in 10 GB, are you also charged?
* Copy the snapshot between region, you have to copy snapshot (not restore). And in order to copy snapshot to different availability zone, you have to create snapshot from the EBS volume. So, you can only copy the snapshot of EBS volume and not the EBS volume to the different region.

## EBS Encryption

* EBS Encryption is AES265. It is completely transparent to the OS. If you are from VMware Background this is same VMDK encryption.
* But when OS itself does encryption e.g. Bit locker then there is CPU overhead. But both OS level and EBS level encryption can live together
* Here DEK is used, data is encrypted and decrypted on the fly with no performance loss.
* Once volume is encrypted, it will remain encrypted irrespective if you copy or take snapshot BUT in all cases same DEK is used. But you can always change by selecting different CMK.
* It is free of cost. 
* You can enable account wide encryption of EBS volume. This means, all volumes get encrypted by using the CMK specified per account level but then EBS volumes encryption is limited to the region.
