# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 06.12.2020

Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https://learn.cantrill.io/)

## EC2 Network and DNS Architecture

Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https://learn.cantrill.io/) 

Things attached to the instance

* Primary IPv4 IP Address
* 0 or more secondary IP Address
* 0 or 1 Public IPv4 Address
* 0 or 1 Elastic IPv4 Address per Private IPv4 Address
* 0 or more IPv6 Address
* Security Group per Interface NOT per IP Address
* Private IPv4 Address never changes. Internal DNS Name IP-InternalIPAddress.ec2.internal. Only possible to use it internally.
* Public IPv4 changes when you stop and start the instance. It also changes when EC2 instance moves to another host
* IPv4 IP Address is also allocated DNS Name which is ec2-publicipaddress.compute-1.amazononaws.com, when you ping this hostname **internally it** resolves to private ip address. But when you ping this host from outside AWS, then it resolves to public IP address.
* When you assign elastic IP to EC2 instance, then this action removes Public IPv4 address and vice versa. But EC2 instance never gets **same public IPv4 address**
* You can associate elastic IP either to primary interface or secondary interface (cannot assign to both?)
* Secondary Interface use case could be licensing a software based on the MAC Address. When the EC2 is replaced, you can simply move the secondary Interface to the new EC2 instance
* You can opt for multiple Interface card when you would like to separate data and management traffic. In this case, you need a seperate Security group per interface
* :magent: Public IPs cannot be assigned to EC2 instance.
 