# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 06.12.2020

## Amazon Machine Image (AMI)

Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https://learn.cantrill.io/) 

* Every time you launch instance, you use AMI without knowing it.
* AMI can be AWS provided or community based
* But we can get AMI from commerical market place e.g. AMI with 3rd party license. Here the cost model is different
* This is important, AMI are specific to region. This means AMI can be same or different per region. Irrespective of that, AMI are defined by AMI IDs and will be unique per Region
* By Default AMI are private, but you either make it public, assign it to AWS accounts. These permissions are associated with AMI.
* You can always create AMI instance from the Instance e.g. you install wordpress on the EC2- instance, then you create a AMI out of it. 
* AMI ID is purely container, it has only block device mapping table reference the device IDs.
* AMI cannot be edited. (if you are coming from vmware background it might confused you, but it is same as updating template. In order to patch the OS, you convert the template to VM and patch it and convert back to template)
* AMI is not free you are billed for the snapshots associated with the AMI. But remember EBS snapshot costs only for space consumed and not allocated space.
* AMI should be created (**recommended**) when the instance is powered off.

## Instance Pricing Model

### On Demand Instances

* Default pricing model
* Billed hourly. Based on OS. Some OS may charge per seconds (minimum 60 seconds)

#### :toolbox: When to use

* Unpredictable demand
* New application whose demand is not known in advance
* Short term requirements or no longer term commitments
* :magnet: Which cannot tolerate disruptions

### Spot Instances

* Application can tolerate disruption
* cheapest of all
* You specify maximum price you are willing to pay, But the instances are terminated when the spot price exceeds the maximum price you have stated
* when you create spot instance, you need to specify
  * No of instances
  * Types of instance
  * AZ
  * Spot Price
  * Launch Template
  * EC2 instance should be hibernate, stopped or Terminated
* Spot instances can be interrupted by EC2 with **two minutes** of notification

#### :toolbox: When to use

* You have on demand processing requirements
* Analyse data
* You cannot use this for your file server or your **single** web server

### Reserved Instances

* best one as you get 75% discount here.
* second, you get 100% guarantee the instance does not terminate
* thirdly, you can pay either upfront, partial upfront or no upfront
* lastly, you can pay either 1 or 3 years.
* partial upfront you have pay e.g. 6 months, then hourly rate for the remaining 6 months.
* You can reserve the instance per Region, per Zone. If Zone is having capacity issue, then reservation gets priority.
* You can also schedule reservation e.g. sales period, Black Friday
* Take note that when a Reserved Instance expires, any instances that were covered by the Reserved Instance are billed at the on-demand price which costs significantly higher.

#### :toolbox: When to use

* Business critical application
* Long term commitment
* Steady state workload 
* Reserved capacity at economical price.

#### You can use combination of all these models or to say you can mix and match things to the meet the requirements.