# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 06.12.2020

Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https://learn.cantrill.io/) 

## Instance Checks and Auto Recovery

Two types of Instance checks

### System Status Check (EC2 host checks)

* loss of system power
* loss of network connectivity
* host software and hardware issues
  
### Instance status checks (EC2 Instance Checks)

* Corrupted File System
* Incorrect Instance Networking
* OS Kernel Issues

## Auto Recovery

* You can create Alarm which can trigger alarm to restart the system by using "Create Status check alarm"
* Action could be
  * restart
  * stop
  * terminate
  * recover
* Works on limited Modern Instance.
* Do not work when you have instance store configured.
* May not work if there is capacity issue on EC2 host.


## Horizontal vs Vertical Scaling

* Vertical scaling considerations
  * Monolithic application
  * But may cost you premium as you increase the size and remember there is always a upper limit
  * Vertical scaling requires a disruption (Compute -add/remove operations)
* Horizontal scaling
  * Less expensive
  * No disruptions to the application as long as application support offload sessions
  * Requires application support as you need a load balancer in front of it.
  * There are lot of options to scale granularly.

## Instance Metadata

  Is the data(Information) about the instance.
* http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data
* information about
  * Networking e.g. IPv4 Public address, Instance AZ Location
  * User-data
  * Authentication
* do remember this information is available to anyone who has access to the EC2 instance. You can block it using iptables
* meta is neither encrypted nor authenticated.
