# 06-11-2020 AWS SAA Exam Notes -Part C

Revised On: 05.12.2020

Reference: [AWS Training from Adrain](https://learn.cantrill.io/)

## DynamoDB Operations, Performance and Consistency

### Operations Modes

#### Provisioned
* You designed the RCU and WCU as per your sizing requirements
* You are charged for Single RCU and WCU operation if less than stated
* 300 Capacity Units are available for bursting but these should not used for any sizing
  
#### On-Demand Mode 
* 5 times expensive.
* But zero admin overhead

### Operation Types

There are two types of operation performed on DynamoDB Table. It is either query or Map

* **Query** - as simple as querying the data in the table. But remember you can query only using Primary Key or Primary Key plus Sort Key. If you need to query data based on attributes or other function then you can use Map
* **Map** - Is in simple words, it is like reading entire table. This is inefficient option and should be avoided where possible.

### DynamoDB Consistency Mode

There are two types of consistency for read operations. Strong and eventual. Both these are self explanatory.

In DynamoDB, all writes are send to leader node. Leader node then send the writes to other nodes. This is the reason WCU are expensive as compared RCU. So, if you query the leader node, you will always get strong consistency but this is just the possibilities.

Very good explanation is provided by Adrian in his video. It should be reviewed when in Doubt.

Revised On: 26.11.2020 | Next Revision: 29.11.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------
