# 06-11-2020 AWS SAA Exam Notes -Part B

Revised On: 05.12.2020

Though this file is done on same day, I have divided this in to parts to read easier.

Reference: [AWS Training from Adrain](https://learn.cantrill.io/)

## DynamoDB Architecture

* First and foremost, it is no-SQL database key/value database.
* It is Wide-column database.
* Considered as $true DBaaS Product. It is public service. You only have to manage database and not database servers like Amazon RDS or Aurora
* It is regional service i.e. it is by default HA across AZ, data is automatically replicated across the Zones

> * But remember :magnet: you have to handle this manually for RDS.
> * If you remember :magnet: from earlier lesson DynamoDB is one of the product which can utilize what is called as VPC GW Endpoint.

Another important side note :bellhop_bell: : There are other products e.g. Dynamo DB Tables and DynamoDB Accelerator. During initial learning, I always get mixup with products.

### Keywords

* Low latency
* Automatic Backup and Point in Time Recovery
* Data at rest encryption
* Event driven architecture (in other words invoke Lamda function for specific event)
* There are two types of keys available
  * Partition key (do read this primary key. Primary key is only in RDS)
  * Composite Key is combination of (Partition Key + Sort Key) 
* So, this means - every item in the table must have unique PK or unique PK and SK
* Items in the table can have attributes over and above PK
* Items can have no attributes, mixture of attributes or completely different attributes. In short, no rigid attribute structure.

There are two methods you can provision **tables**

* Provisioned Capacity (Capacity = RCU = 4 KB/s, WCU = 1 KB/s)
* On-Demand Capacity (Capacity = RCU = 4 KB/s, WCU = 1 KB/s)

### Backup and Restore

#### Manual Backup

* Purpose is to migrate across region.
* You can restore table with or without index.
* You should manage this backup, this backup has infinite retention period.

#### Automatic Backup

* Allow Point in time restore
* :magnet: You must enable this backup per Table
* RPO=1 sec for last 35 days

Revised On: 26.11.2020 | Next Revision: 29.11.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------
