## 06-11-2020 AWS SAA Exam Notes

Revised On: 05.12.2020

### Elastic Cache

* Critical Solution for designing High performance system
* In-Memory Database (_wondering why it is called Elastic cache?_)
* Two Engines
  * Memcache
  * Redis

#### Difference between Memcache and Redis

Memcache  | Redis
----------|----------
simple data structure | advanced data structure :point_up:
No Multi AZ or HA :thumbsdown: | Multi AZ and HA
No Backup ups :thumbsdown: | Backup and restore
Multi thread & therefore Multi-core aware | Strong consistency :fist:

#### Use cases

* Read Heavy
* Low Latency
* Reduces cost, RCU are less
* Storing Session Data

#### Considerations

* Need application change :roll_eyes: :bangbang:
* Amazon ElastiCache cannot provide a performance improvement from milliseconds to microseconds, let alone millions of requests per second like DAX can

### Amazon Redshift

* Simple words a Dataware House (DWH) Solution.
* :bangbang: Do not confuse this with Redis.
* DWH databases are always OLAP (online analytic processing) and NOT OLTP
* It is column database, it helps in reporting
* OLAP always gets data from OLTP for analysis
* Redshift is delivered as Service same as RDS. Remember RDS, we get EC2 instance though we cannot access them.
* **Redshift spectrum** - can read the data directly from the S3. This reduces the time to copy data into Redshift. Remember we are normally talking here TBs of data.
* Also features federated identity
* Remember Athena is adhoc thing, but DWH cannot be.
* Redshift is basically a cluster but it is restricted to single AZ. Unless you configure it otherwise.
* Amazon Redshift also includes Redshift Spectrum, allowing you to directly run SQL queries against exabytes of unstructured data in Amazon S3. No loading or transformation is required, and you can use open data formats, including Avro, CSV, Grok, ORC, Parquet, RCFile, RegexSerDe, SequenceFile, TextFile, and TSV. Redshift Spectrum automatically scales query compute capacity based on the data being retrieved, so queries against Amazon S3 run fast, regardless of data set size.
  
#### Redshift cluster

* Has leader node and compute node. So compute node does the computing but it is leader node who decides who does the computing.
* Compute node is further divides into slice and each slice gets Memory and Disk space
  * slice can be 2, 4, 16 or 32 slices
* **_Enchanced VPC Routing_** means private access to Redshift. Because by default it is using public routes
* Few ways Redshift cluster protects your data
  * One copy of the data to another node in the cluster
  * **Automatic** Backups happens to **S3**, every 8 hours or 5 GB
  * Since S3 is Regional Service, your data is automatically available across AZ
  * Also you can take snapshot of backup across the Region but it is manual
* Redshift cluster can be populated with data using 
  * S3
  * DynamoDB
  * database migration service
  * Kinesis Firehose

##### Redshift Cluster Regional recovery

You can configure Amazon Redshift to copy snapshots for a cluster to another region. To configure cross-region snapshot copy, **you need to enable this copy feature for each cluster** and configure where to copy snapshots and how long to keep copied automated snapshots in the destination region. 

When cross-region copy is enabled for a cluster, all new manual and automatic snapshots are copied to the specified region.


##### Enhanced VPC Routing

When you use Amazon Redshift Enhanced VPC Routing, Amazon Redshift forces all COPY and UNLOAD traffic between your cluster and your data repositories through your Amazon VPC. 

By using Enhanced VPC Routing, you can use standard VPC features, such as VPC security groups, network access control lists (ACLs), VPC endpoints, VPC endpoint policies, internet gateways, and Domain Name System (DNS) servers. 

You use these features to tightly manage the flow of data between your Amazon Redshift cluster and other resources. 

When you use Enhanced VPC Routing to route traffic through your VPC, you can also use VPC flow logs to monitor COPY and UNLOAD traffic. If Enhanced VPC Routing is not enabled, Amazon Redshift routes traffic **through the Internet**, including traffic to other services within the AWS network.
