# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Putting this in two parts as wish to avoid long pages

Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https:://learn.cantrill.io)

## Athena

* **Keywords** - Serverless, Schema-on-read
* You are charged only for the data consumed while running the query
* When you're require to built a adhoc queries on large datasets. Here the queries are SQL-Like queries. 
* Since it is adhoc, no monthly cost. It is pay as you go.
* What Athena needs :thinking:?
  * Data should be in S3 (only S3?) but exception is for CloudTrail, VPC Flowlogs and more
  * Data can be structured, unstructured and semi-structured. CSV, JSON and etc
* Completely eliminate :boom: the so called ETL process.
* All you need is Schema definition for the table
* The most important point to remember :point_up:, original data is unchanged.
* You can take the output and send it to another data visualization tools :thought_balloon:
* It can be event driven and can be integrated with Lambda
* You need to define S3 bucket to store the output of this result.

## Dynamo Streams and Triggers

### Stream Concept

* It is ordered list of what was changed. In other words, Time ordered list.
* It tracks changes in table for last 24 hours only. So changes are tracked? In table I would say following things changes (CRUD)
  * Update
  * Delete
  * Inserts
* Streams are enabled per table basis
* Now you also have possibility to create views to review these changes in the way you like. These are
  * Keys - records Partition Key and Sort Key (if present)
  * Old_Image
  * New_Image
  * New_Image and Old_Image
* Streams becomes useful when it is integrated with Lamda. It is basically event driven architecture. Any changes in the tables **triggers** an Event. With this event, Lamda function can be invoked. e.g. any changes in Stock prices can send SMS to you using Lamda function.

## DynamoDB Global and Secondary Indexes

* Indexing Basics - a different view of your data that is inside the base Table. You need this because you can "by default" sort data based on Only Partition key and Sort Key (when available). 
* when you want to sort the data using different Attribute the Indexing is required. Keyword "Alternative perspective"
* you decide which attributes are projected into the views. This decision is critical as it impacts the efficiency of the Indexes. In short, plan your indexes in advance.
* Concept of Sparse Index - only data specific query is loaded. Therefore the scan operation can also be much efficient on this Index.
* There are two types of Indexes, Local Secondary Index (LSI) and Global Secondary Index (GSI). Lets compare them


Local Secondary Index | Global Secondary Index
----------------------| ----------------------
View are created using different Sort Key BUT SAME Partition Key | Views are creating using different Sort Key and Different Partition Key as compared to base table
LSI must be created at the time of creation of Base Table. | You can create Index anytime.
Maximum 5 LSI can be created reference Base Table | Maximum 20 GSI per table
LSI share capacity with the Main Table. | Do not share RCU and WCU
This means they are using RCU and WCU. This can increase cost. | In other words, do not share capacity (remember the word "Capacity" used in the lecture.)
Attributes projections is bit flexible, select or use all. You can also use Keys to project in Index | Is also true here
LSI are Strong consistent | GSI are eventual consistent. Remember this.

AWS Recommends GSI as default Indexing, only use LSI when strong consistency is required.

Adrian shares a very good example in the lesson. Please go through it.

**Revised On: 21.11.2020** | **Next Revision: 24.11.2020**
---------------------------| -----------------------------