# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 05.12.2020

## Introduction to Containers

* Portability and containerized are the biggest benefits of using Containers
* Docker File - to create docker image
* Docker image - layered stack which includes that the minimum Just enough OS
* Docker images can be created from scratch or from base image
* Docker images are read-only. So that changes are made using differential architecture.
* Docker container is running copy of Docker image PLUS Read/Write layer.
* Container registry is place where pre-built docker images. The popular one is Docker Hub
* Container can expose ports e.g. 80 for outside communication.


The Process to deploy container is

* Take a Docker image from Docker Hub
* Deploy on Docker host
  
## ECS - Elastic Container Service Concepts

* Elastic Container Registry - AWS own registry
* You can run containers in two mode EC2 and Fargate mode
* **Container definition** includes
  * Where the container image is
  * What port can be exposed
* **Task definition** includes
  * One or multiple container definition
  * They define resources required (CPU and RAM)
  * They define networking
  * They define cluster mode
  * Task role - IAM role to run containers and access AWS resources
* **Service Definition**
  * Define how the task are run
  * Basically how task can scale and can be made highly available
  * How many copies of task we need
  * We can have multiple copies of task running
  * It is strongly recommend when you need a production services which has substantial incoming load

> In Container definition we define web layer, app layer and database layer. They operate on specific port. In Task definition we define one ore more web layer/App or DB Layer along with compute and networking. In service definition, we can scale these layers based on demand. e.g. we can create dev, test and production definition.

## ECS Cluster

* Following are the high level tasks in the cluster
  * Scheduling
  * Orchestrating
  * Cluster management
  * Placement Engine

### EC2 Mode

* ECS cluster is created in VPC
* So it benefits from multiple AZ
* When you create cluster, you specify initial size of the cluster
* EC2 instance acts as container host. You see them in your account, you administrator them using ECS tool. In short, it is not serverless solution
* ECS uses container registries
* In this mode, ECS will handle number of tasks to run
* Strong use case could be, when you have reserved instances in your account and you want to control the capacity and availability
* When EC2 instances are deployed, you are charged irrespective if they are running containers or not.

### Fargate Mode

* All functions are similar but Fargate is kind of shared platform where all containers are running. The Container host is shared. The Tasks and service definitions are running on these shared platform. You define your requirements in terms of resource, networking, tasks and definition. 
* You still have VPC but in this VPC, ENI is injected.
* You only pay for the container resources that you consume.

### When to use EC2, ECS in EC2 Mode and ECS in Fargate mode

* EC2 for testing or development (corner cases)
* ECS in EC2 mode when you are price conscious
* ECS in Fargate mode
  * when you are overhead conscious
  * when you have bursty workload
  * demand is unknown
  * Batch workload
