# Object Versioning & MFA Delete

Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https:://learn.cantrill.io)

* Object versioning applies per Bucket
* It is one way switch, once enabled it cannot be disabled again. But you can always suspend it.
* All objects inside the Bucket has ID null before versioning is enabled.
* Every changes in the object ends up assigning or creating new OID
* The newest version of OID is referred as current version
* So when you access object without explicitly providing OID, then it defaults to current version
* In short, objects can be accessed if you can provided it OID.
* when you delete a object in S3, it ends up creating special version of Object called as delete marker. When you delete the marker, it same as Ctrl + Z. (do not think that by deleting the marker you are deleting the object)
* when you enabled versioning then you are charged for all versions of the object
  * e.g. you upload 5 GB of file in S3 with versioning enabled.
  * if you create 5 version of this file, then you are charged for all versions of this file. So be careful you are enabling versioning on the bucket. It can only be suspended but not DISABLED
  * but remember, even if you suspend the versioning, the versions of the file still remains
* MFA delete when enabled, it means you need MFA authorization
  * To suspend and re-enable
  * to delete the version of the object
* when you delete the specific version of the object, then the action is permanent
* but when you delete the object, then delete marker is created for that object.

## S3 Performance Optimization

* By default when you upload object to S3, it uploads a single object in **single stream** (irrespective of its size, do you remember maximum object size in S3 is?)
* Singe PUT operation is limited to 5GB

### multipart operations sizing considerations

* minimum size of the object should 100 MB
* maximum parts can be 10,000
* each part can range from 5MB till 5GB

### S3 Transfer Accelerations

* S3 Buckets needs to enabled for transfer acceleration (this means, it is by default disabled)
* It uses AWS Edge network to transfer data using AWS high speed internal network link
* Bucket naming restrictions applies
  * there should be no dot in the bucket name
  * The name of the bucket should be DNS compatible
* So when you enable transfer acceleration you get a specific endpoint. This is the endpoint users should use to get benefit of transfer acceleration.

### Encryption 101

* Encryption at Rest - protects against **physical theft** and physical tampering and only impact single user/single entity/product
* Algorithm and key is used to convert plain text data into **Ciphertext**
* Symmetric Key and non-symmetric key.
  * Symmetric key is normally used when data transfer is not required between two people/devices/endpoints

* Asymmetric Key
  * Public and Private Key. 
  * Asymmetric key is computational heavy and has size limits. In this case, communication is established between two parties using asymmetric key and the data is transferred using symmetric key

#### Primary requirements of Key Signing

* when you encrypt the data using public key, only private key owner can decrypt it. Since public key is public available, i can take your public key, encrypt the message that I have received the information and send it you. Make you believe that someone else has send you this message. So, in short encryption do not prove the identity. This can be solved easily.
* So when you next time encrypt a message using Person-A public key, you should also **sign** that request using your private key. So, when the Person-A receives that message, he can verify whether that msg was signed by my private key, by using my public key. Might not have been easy to explain. Please review Adrian Lesson for this.
