# S3 Security (Resource Policies and ACL)

Revised On: 24.11.2020 | Next Revision: 27.11.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------


Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https:://learn.cantrill.io)

* ResourcePolicy are the policies which we apply directly to the resource e.g. in this case it is S3
* So we need to create a policy and attached it to the Bucket. This means S3  bucket policy is type of resource policy
* These polices are same as IAM Policies, the only difference is, they are attached to the bucket.
  * to repeat - Identity policies apply to identity and controls what identity can do, while resource policy define who can access the resource. 
* :bangbang: S3 is private by default
* Identity Policy can be attached only to the identity in same AWS Account. The biggest benefit of **resource Policy** is, bucket also be accessed via anonymous user as we do not need to attach any identity for this. But for Identity polices, you should attached Identities to it.
* Good way to identify if the policy is resource policy or identity policy is the check for the presence of "**Principal**" word in the policy. The Principal defines who this policy statement applies. The "Principal" is not present in identity policy because it is implied it will be applied to identity
* Bucket policy (resource policy) should be your default approach when enabling anonymous access to the Bucket
* You can also add conditions e.g. only specific ip address can access this bucket. You can also add MFA requirement to access S3 Bucket
* There can be only :pushpin: one bucket policy per bucket BUT there can be multiple statements within a policy
* Also note, access to the resource will based on combination of resource and identity policy. Of course the same rule applies. **DENY ALWAYS WINS**
* > Side note: Identity policy do not apply for anonymous users, you all control must be enforced
* For Cross Account access, it is two step process. First account has access to S3 in general and then there has to be policy to allow to access to specific bucket
* Block Public Access is like "DENY ALWAYS WINS" this means, when this checkbox is selected, irrespective of what is defined in the policy , the access to S3 bucket is :no_bell: blocked for anonymous access. But AWS accounts or other AWS account can still access the bucket. <ins> It is just public access is block for this </ins>.
* Not every AWS Service support resource policy. So if you granting permissions on many AWS resources, it is probably better idea to use identity policy
* IAM provides more centralized options to managing resources as compared to resource policy.
* Uses cases of when to use resource policy and when to use identity policy are clearly explained by Adrian as the end of this lesson. I do not want to repeat what he has said there. It is worth the time.

## S3 Static Hosting

* Static website hosting end point is created
* Large media can be offloaded to S3 and static pages can be redirected to this media. EC2 is much more expensive as compared to S3
* Other use cases can be - to use static website for out of band pages required during web server maintenance.

### S3 Costing

* Per GiB charge per month
* Charge for the data moving out of S3 :anger: :collision:
* Charge for requesting data. This is especially important when you are hosting static website on S3. These operations could be get operations or list operations there is charge per 1000 operations.
* As part of free tier you get
  * 5 GB of data per month
  * 20,000 get requests and 2000 put requests
