# Key Management Service (KMS)

Revised On: 24.11.2020 | Next Revision: 27.11.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------

Reference: [AWS SAA Course from Adrian](https:://learn.cantrill.io)

* Regional Service and Public Service
* KMS keys do not leave the AWS and are held securely in KMS
* Provides FIPS 140-2 (not **all** level 3)
* Main thing KMS manage is Customer Master Keys (CMK)
* CMK are logical. Think of them containers for your physical keys
  * you get key ID
  * creation date
  * key policy (think of this as resource policy)
  * state of key (active, passive)
  * description
* every CMK is backed by physical material (HSM)
* CMK can be used to encrypt or decrypt material that is up to 4KB in size
* CreateKey operation create CMK container
* CMK Container is the most important thing KMS manages and stores
* CMK are never stored in persistent form when not encrypted
* KMS takes CMK and encrypt it before storing it on persistent form

## DEK

* Data Encryption Key (DEK) are generated from CMK. DEK is always linked to CMK.
* KMS does not use DEK and neither store them. KMS only generate DEK
* DEK are generated in two version
  * Plain
  * encrypted. The encrypted version is encrypted using CMK.
  * Plain Text version of DEK is used to encrypt data and then it is discarded. 
  * KMS does not track the usage of DEK e.g. how much data is encrypted using DEK and how many times DEK is used, KMS has no knowledge on this
  * Cipher Data and DEK are stored together, so that we know which DEK to use to decrypt data.
* KMS are stored per region and never leaves that region
* You cannot extract CMK
* There are two types of CMK
  * AWS Managed
  * Customer managed

## CMK - AWS Managed and Customer Managed 

* AWS Managed CMK are created automatically by AWS when encrypting objects in S3 or any other services which are using KMS. Before KMS is invoked "AWS Managed Keys" section is blank
* While Customer Managed CMK are created by customer and you can apply RBAC model on the various operations. RBAC model is achieved using Policy (same as resource or bucket policy)
* Both CMK and AWS Managed can be rotated i.e. Backend material can be changed
* AWS managed keys are rotated every 3 years (1095 days) and it cannot be disabled but CMK it is optional. If enabled, it happens once per year.
* :gift_heart: **Keywords**: Encryption Key rotation.
* :dizzy: Protip: You can use Alias e.g. so if the key rotates, the application which are using Alias not need to change anything.
* When you decrypt command you do not need to provide CMK. (remember this)

### S3 and KMS

* :magnet: Buckets are not encrypted but the objects inside them are encrypted. This is different than Bucket Default encryption
* You can do either Server Side or client side encryption BUT both are encryption at Rest.
* Client side encryption is done at client side and comes at encrypted form to S3. And you manage it end to end

#### SSE - C

Customer provided Key. Keys comes from the Customer but computation to encrypted and decrypted is done by S3. When the object and Key is uploaded to S3, data is encrypted using uploaded key. In this process one way hash is generated and attached to the object. SO during decryption, we know which key was used to encrypt. Key is discarded. But you need to trust that S3/AWS has discarded the key. In short, you retain key management function but give computation task to AWS

#### SSE -S3

With AWS S3 managed CMK. Here both keys and computational process of encryption and decryption is managed by S3. **For every object unique Key is generated**. This unique Key is used to encrypted the object. After encryption, the encrypted key is stored with the Object. Not suitable when

* When you need access to these keys
* When you need to control the rotation of keys
* If you need Role Separation, then this is unsuitable

#### SSE -KMS

Customer managed CMK stored in KMS. Only difference between this and SSE-S3 is the key is managed by KMS and not S3. With Customer managed CMK you have full control on who can use this key and what kind of access the user can have.

#### Default Bucket Encryption Policy

* It is what default Bucket encryption policy you want to configure. Here it means if you do not specify any header then default encryption policy is used
* :heartbeat: e.g. AES256 = SSE-S3 and aws:kms means SSE - KMS.
* Please note this is not requirement. It is actually other way around. if you forgot to put a header, then the default encryption policy is used.
