# S3 Lifecycle Configuration Manager

* Set of rules applied to manage Large S3 Buckets.
* Action types can be transition or expiration
  * Transition actions refer to move objects to different storage classes based on the age of the Object
* These rules can be more granular based on prefix or Tags
* you can also expire objects or **versions** of the object after certain period of time. So, if you multiple version of the objects, as the object becomes previous, it is that time object expiration time starts.
* Difference between IA and LCM is, you cannot move objects based on access patterns
* Transitions of objects won't happen directly, it will transition between different classes over a defined period of time
* It is like waterfall model, it always flow down.
* 30 days is a minimum duration object must stay in S3 standard. But you always directly move the objects to different tiers but for transition you must wait till 30 days
* smaller objects the cost might more expensive.
* You cannot configure a single rule to transition object from one tier to another. You create two different rules for this. But in this case you will be charged for the minimum duration.

# S3 Replication

* Two types of replications
  * Cross Region Replication
    * Global Resilience
    * Reduce latency by replicating data to remote regions for better performance.
  * Same Region Replication
    * Log aggregation
    * Copying production data to test environment
    * Resilience with Strict sovereignty
    * 
* You need IAM Role to replicate buckets.
* Replication is encrypted
* For replicating buckets in different account, you need additional policy to allow source account to replicate data into destination bucket
* you can replicate entire bucket, use tags and prefix combination to decide what to replicate.
* You can replicate to same storage class or different storage class. (use case for One Zone IA?) but default same storage class
* object ownership is retained but this would be less useful when you doing cross account. In this case, you can change the object ownerships
* Replication Time control = 15 minutes. RPO = 15 minutes but it costs you money
* one way only replication process.
* Versioning must be enabled and replication is only for objects which are uploaded after replication is enabled.
* Replicate encrypted objects (SSE-S3, SSE-KMS) BUT not SSE-C but AWS is not in position of keys. But SSE-KMS need extra configuration.
* Do not replicate system events, Glacier and Glacier Deep Archive
* Deletion do not get replicated

## S3 Pre-Signed URLs

* Access to S3 URL using your credentials e.g. if you want to give download link to your subscribers.
* Put and Get commands can be used to upload and download objects from S3 using Pre-signed URL
* Bucket remains private. Very important. Since it is single application, we can create IAM user to create a pre-signed URL
* Even if you do not have access to the Object, you can still generate Pre-signed URL.
* When you access the Pre-signed URL, it is at the time what permissions user has (who has created Pre-signed URL) matters.
  * so if you create a pre-signed URL on a object you do not have. You share the URL with end user. Then assign yourself permission to the object. If user access this URL after you assign yourself permission then you can access the URL.
* you can theoretically use IAM role but note IAM roles credential can expire much before the Pre-signed URL timesout.

## S3 Select and Glacier Select

* These like select statements in SQL
* S3 Select and Glacier Select allows you to partially download objects