# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 30.11.2020 | Next Revision: 03.12.2020
-----------------------| -------------------------

## API Gateway

* API - Application Programming Interface. The important term is endpoint.
* Here in AWS, there is API Endpoint for all AWS services. When you switch the region, you switch the API endpoint behind the scene.
* API is a endpoint which authorized you to perform specific operation.
* API Gateway is managed service and provides managed Endpoints.
* You can also publish your own API endpoints
  * create
  * publish
  * monitor
  * secure
* It is highly flexible. You can create a API endpoint and point it to your on-premises application or AWS. This strategy is normally used to migrate legacy application to AWS. Then you can move your application to AWS and can potentially make it serverless.
* With API Gateway you can directly connect to DynamoDB without requiring any compute services.
* There are three types of API Endpoints
  * Regional
  * Edge Optimized
  * Private
* While Publishing API Endpoint, you get the option on how to integrate this with Lamda.


## Serverless Architecture

* use as much as possible managed service (e.g. could be S3 for persistent object storage or DynamoDB for persistent data storage), 3rd Party Identity Provider (do not reinvent the wheel)
* It is driven by event (event based architecture). This means, if there is no event, nothing run and it should not cost you.
* Lamda is one of the core component of Serverless Architecture
* The Serverless architecture should be such that it should be able to run on any cloud platform.

## Simple Notification Service (SNS)

* It is published and subscription service (Pub/Sub)
* It is public service
* There is message limit of 256KB
* You normally create a topic and if you wish to get notification, you need to subscribe to the topic
* Various types of subscribers are
  * Email (JSON)
  * HTTP/HTTPS
  * SQS
  * Mobile PUSH
  * SMS Message
  * :magnet: Lamda - So Lamda can subscribe a topic and invoke a function based on the event
* If you subscribe to topic, you will get all message which may not be relevant to you. In this case,there is a option to enable filtering.
* Keywords
  * Delivery Status
  * Delivery Retries
  * HA & Scalable
  * SSE
  * Cross Account via Topic Policy

To be honest, the keywords above I did not understood. I review them and add more point as continue through my journey.
