# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 05.12.2020

## Step Functions

* When you need to execute process/code over and above 15 minutes then think of step function
* Step Function has main component called as State Machine
* State Machine has
  * Workflow. It has start point and end point. And you can define things in the start and end point.
  * State Types: Start, Stop, Wait, Choice, Parallel, Map and Task
  * Choice State is nothing but decision tree
  * Parallel state is two flows are done in parallel
  * Map state is repeating same steps for specific flow/action
  * Task state to perform task with the help of external services e.g. can be integrated with other AWS Services to perform tasks. (delegation)

* Maximum Duration of state machine is 1 year
* Two types of workload
  * standard : default 
  * express : only when IoT, streaming data processing and transformation. High volume events. 5 Minutes duration. Highly transactional
* State Machines can be invoked e.g.
  * API Gateway
  * Event Bridge
  * IoT Rules
  * Lamda (?)
* Written in Amazon State Language
* Need IAM role
  
* Simple Email Service (SES) requires whitelisting to send emails
* Lamda functions needs execution role to send emails on behalf of SES

## Simple Queue Service

* Visibility Timeout - Time the message is hidden from the queue. The concept is if the process is unable to process the message within specific time, it becomes invisible
* Dead letter queue - When the message is repeatedly failed to be processed, then it goes into dead letter queue
* ASG and Lamda can be integrated with SQS. Either to scale out or invoke other function based on the event in the queue.

### SQS and SNS FAN Out

* In this case, SNS placed before the SQS. i.e. SQS subscribe to SNS topic. So in this case, when the user upload the video. There can be multiple SQS behind the scene.
* e.g. We can filter the SNS events based on the event (resolution of video uploaded), each SQS queue can process the video based on the size of the video.
* S3 is capable of generating event when someone upload the object, but it can generate only one event.

#### Types of Queue

* Standard - delivery message at-least once but order may not be same when it delivers same
* FIFO - delivery exactly once and in the same order. Hence throughput is limited (3000 msg/sec with batching or 300 msg/sec without batching)
* Billed based on request
  * 1 request = 1 - 10 messages up to 64 KB
* Short term polling - not recommended as it can cost 
* Long term polling - recommended
* Encryption at rest is supported but by default encrypted in transit
* Access to the policy is based on 
  * Identity policy
  * queue policy - allow access from external accounts

## Kinesis

* Huge amount of data is ingested into the system. Talking about millions of events e.g. US election 2020
* It scales infinitely. It is basically streams of events.
* It is Regional, AWS managed public services (now every time you read "regional" and "AWS Managed" you should think of multiple AZ)
* This data stays in Kinesis for 24 hours. That is called persistency. You can extend this up to 7 days but then it is additional cost.
* Multiple producers e.g. twitter, facebook and multiple consumers.
* A Kinesis data stream is an ordered sequence of data records **meant to be written to and read from in real-time**. Data records are therefore stored in shards in your stream temporarily.
* Consumers can access the data in real time or at specified interval
* Data analytics.
* Stream starts with single Shard.
  * Shard - 1 MB/s ingestion and 2 MB/s consumption. More shards you have, more throughput you can get.
  * Data is stored in Kinesis Data Record (max size is 1 MB)
* Kinesis Firehose - can pull the data out of Kinesis and send it to S3. This allows us saved cost esp when you have to keep data for more than 24 hour and carry out the analysis

### SQS vs Kinesis

* SQS Keywords: Decoupling, asynchronous. Remember you do not have thousands of subscribers and consumers in SQS. This is not the purpose of SQS. Also there is no concept of persistence, once the message is processed, it is deleted.
* **Kinesis**: Streaming data, app clicks, analytics.
