# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 17.12.2020

## Why we need a load balancer?

* Now, with DNS Multivalue plus Health checks everything should work. But following does not work
  * There is no intelligence e.g. any of the web server will get more request. In short load distribution cannot happen. May be the "weighted value DNS policy", it is possible but then this does not scale well especially because of DNS Cache
  * Second, there is very critical issue which DNS cannot do solve and it is session management. This is THE most important.
  * Third, Load Balancer can do health checks for you, DNS cache problem will not be there at all because at client side, VIP will be cached. Load balancer will redirect the requests based on the intelligence.

### Important Terms

* **Listener**: The one who listens at specific port. So the load balancer is always listening at specific port, URL and etc
* **Targets** are actually the servers/instances/services behind the load balancer. It is load balancer job to connect to the individual server. Lamda could be one of the example.
* Endpoint user/devices do not connect to the server but to the Load balancer
* Load balancer provides enhanced High availability, Fault Tolerance and Scaling.

## Application Load balancer (ALB)

* Layer 7, this means it is capable to detect data which passes through them.
* ALB can take actions based on it
  * Path
  * headers
  * hosts
* ALB is highly available across the AZ, as long as you configured it correctly
* It can be Internet facing or internal load balancer
* Costing
  * Hourly Rate plus
  * Load Balancer Capacity Unit
* Cross Zone load balanced is enabled by default
* When you create security group, you also define which entities can reach load balancer. So in short, Security groups are defined at load balancer level (as well)
* If your load balancer uses an encrypted connection (https) to communicate with the instances, you can **optionally** enable authentication of the instances. This ensures that the load balancer communicates with an instance only if its public key matches the key that you specified to the load balancer for this purpose.

### Rules, Targets and Groups

* Targets can be EC2 Instance, Lambda or ECS/Containers, HTTPS, HTTP/2 (?) and Websockets
* Targets are grouped together to form Target Group. Targets can be part of multi-groups
* ALB distributes connect to Target Groups
* Rules
  * Rules are applied to the target groups.
  * Rules can be path based (path based routing) or host based
    * path pattern is case sensitive and include up to 3 wild characters
  * Host based rules can distributed the traffic based on multiple DNS names
  * SNI provides the functionality of multiple SSL Certs, there by gives us opportunity to consolidate the number of classical load balancers.

## Launch Configurations and Templates

* Both are same. Both cannot be edit. Launch Template is now recommended to use by AWS
* With Launch template, there is possibility of versioning
* These are the configuration which you do in advance and the Auto scaling will use this information to **automatically** launch the instance
* Things you can configure in Launch Templates/Configuration
  * AMI, AMI Instance type
  * Storage
  * Keypair
  * Network ACL (?) and Security Group
* In Launch templates you get additional features
  * Placement groups
  * Capacity reservations
  * Elastic Graphics
  * You can also use Launch Template to deploy instance from command line also
  