# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 05.12.2020

## Auto scaling group

* Launch templates and Launch Configurations are inputs or the configurations items which tells Auto scaling group how and where to provisioning the EC2 instance
* They can also self heal EC2 instances
* Most important terms are
  * Minimum Capacity
  * Desired Capacity - this is the default no of instances, Auto scaling group will always try to provision.
  * Maximum Capacity
* You can either manually defined this or can use auto scaling policies.
* Auto scaling polices use defined metrics e.g. CPU utilization to make this decision
* :magnet: Auto Scaling groups are linked to the VPC.
* Auto Scaling groups can be launched either from Launch configuration or from the specific version of the template

### Scaling Policies

* Types are
  1. Manual
  2. Schedule Scaling: sales periods - it is best suited
  3. Dynamic Scaling
     * **Simple** : CPU above 50% add one instance and reverse. The primary issue with scaling policy is, we must wait till scaling activity is going on. So, in short you cannot anything in cool down period.
     * **Stepped Scaling**: CPU above 50% add 3 instance, and when CPU above 80% add 6 instance and reverse. It is more like fast reaction and in steps not gradual reaction. Here we get parameters to select. 1. scaling metrics and 2. Threshold. This is the differentiating factor compared to Simple scaling. When you define threshold crossing 50%, then you can define by how many instances you want to scale.
     * **Target Tracking**: This is like establishing a baseline for your application and ensuring the Auto Scaling group sticks to it. e.g. if you define all your server should be avg 40% utilized. Then Auto scaling group either adds or removes the instance to maintain 40% utilization. Increase or decrease the current capacity of the group based on a target value for a specific metric. 
     * Or another e.g. could be - your thermostat maintains the temperature of your home – you select a temperature and the thermostat does the rest.
     * This policy helps over-provisioning of resources.
  
  4. **Cool down period** - is a period which should pass before Auto Scaling group starts reacting to the policies. This will avoid unnecessary auto scaling in and out actions.
  5. With **simple scaling** you need to wait for the cooldown period to complete before initiating additional scaling activities. Target tracking or step scaling policies can trigger a scaling activity immediately without waiting for the cooldown period to expire.
  6. Auto scaling groups also have self-healing function. That is, when it detects that the instance has failed, it will take action to recover the instance.
  7. Auto scaling group will try to develop even number of instance across availability zone
  8. When you integrate load balancer with ASG, then you can also control the number of instances added or removed to Targetgroup based on the policy.
  9. ASG defines when and where instances are launched and Launch Template/Configuration defined what is launched.
  10. **suspend and resume scaling** - used to temporarily pause scaling activities triggered by your scaling policies and scheduled actions.

:electric_plug: "What" could be elephant, ant? You define elephants or ants in the Launch template.

:electric_plug: Where could be river/lake (technically speaking which subnet (AZ)) and when could be day or night

#### Additional Information

* You have to attach instance profile (IAM role) to the Launch Templates. Because it is executed via ASG, ASG needs permission to launch instance
* When you integrate Load balancer with Auto Scaling Group, you integrate it with the Target group
* Both Simple and Stepped scaling needs following
  * CloudWatch Alarm
  * Need High and Low threshold
  * Add or remove instance

## Network Load Balancer (L4)

* Upto L4, TCP/UDP and Ports.
* More higher you go, slower the performance is.
* NLB has 100 ms latency, but ALB has 400 ms latency
* When https traffic inspection is **not required**, then NLB is the default option.
* Keywords:
  * Whitelisting at Firewall
  * Static IP/Elastic IP
  * High performance
  * Load balance non-http/https traffic
  * SSL Pass through

## SSL Offload - ELB

It is all about where the SSL termination will (if it is going to happen)
There are three modes available

1. Bridging Mode (default)
2. Pass Through
3. SSL offload

### Bridging mode

* SSL certificate is required to be placed on ELB, SSL certificate private key is also required to be on ELB
* SSL certificate is also required on target (end points, EC2 instance) and computation is required to be on endpoints
* Second and new SSL connection is established between ELB and endpoint. This is the most important fact to note.
* But in case, you wish to use ELB then with Cloud HSM you can achieve this.

### Pass through

* Highly secure but then ELB is of little use here. You should instead use NLB
* No certificate on ELB/NLB. Hence no decryption happen and no intelligence of ELB can be used to do session management

### SSL Offload

* it is more or less same as Bridging mode except that no new SSL connection is established between ELB and Targets
* In this case, traffic from ELB to Targets is in plain text.

## Stickness

* Not much here. Keep session management outside of EC2 instance
* You can use DynamoDB to retain the session. You can store session state data on both DynamoDB and ElastiCache. These AWS services provide high-performance storage of key-value pairs which can be used to build a highly available web application.
* You cannot put session management on EC2, as there can be uneven load balancing when Session cookie stays on EC2. So when using load balancer, keep the session management outside and not on target.
