# AWS Solution Architect Associate Exam -Notes

Revised On: 05.12.2020

## What is CloudFront?

* Content delivery Network is to reduce load on main server
* Bring content near to the customer which reduces latency and increases performance
* :magnet: It can handle both static and **Dynamic content**

### Important Terms in Cloudfront

1. **Origin** - the place where the content is originally hosted
2. **Distribution** - it is place you configure where to distributed this content. It is *kind of* configuration file send to the edge location
3. **Edge Location** - is a thing you configure in distribution.
4. **Regional Edge Location** - is big brother of Edge location. So user look for a content and did not found that one edge location, then before the request goes to the Origin (origin fetch), the content is checked at Regional Edge location. The regional edge location, the distribute this content to the edges in its region.
5. With ACM (AWS Certificate manager), we can make static website secure (ssl)
6. You cannot upload the object to Cloudfront. Remember S3 transfer acceleration?

#### Cloud Front Optimization guidelines

* Query string Parameters could be set Forward to origin Yes or No
* If you have a content which is unique per region/location e.g. Language then would make sense to cache this content specific to region and the query string should include this parameter. If this parameter is not include then request goes to Origin and item could be wrongly cached
* This is extremely important to understand what content to cache and what queries should be send to origin.
* Query string parameter must match for every query send by the requestor. Please review the video. It is worth the time.
* If your application do not use query string parameters, then disable the "forward to origin"
* But if your application uses it, then you can either all or select the specific query

## AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)

* Only for supported AWS Services/Products e.g. ELB, API-GW and Cloudfront.
* EC2 it is not possible e.g. you deploy a webserver on ec2, you cannot attached certificate via ACM
* Also, communication between Cloudfront and Origin if required to be https, then certificate must be signed, it cannot be self signed. So you need ACM to do this.
* When you create certificate for Cloudfront, the region should be always "us-east-1"
* You must validate your domains using DNS (when domain is register by Route53, the process is integrated) or email if not register with Route53
* Cloudfront supports Server Name Indication (SNI) - to hold multiple SSL certificate behind single IP.

## Securing S3 using Origin Access Identity (OAI)

* To force user only to use Cloudfront or avoid by pass cloudfront
* Origin Access Identity is Identity, which needs to be associated with Cloudfront
* To keep things simple, create one Origin Access Identity and attached to only one distribution

## Lamda at Edge

* It is light weight. It is limited (e.g. node.js and python as runtime)
* limited time limited
* Runs in Public space NOT via VPC
* Lamda can adjust traffic between viewer and origin
* Four request types
  * viewer request - **after** cloudfront receives the request
  * origin request - **before** cloudfront forwards the request to an origin
  * origin response - **after** cloudfront receives the request from an origin
  * viewer response - **before** cloudfront forwards the response to a viewer
* At each of these layers, lamda function can be invoked. You could see - how cloudfront is central to the request/response.

### :toolbox: Use cases

* A/B Testing - viewer request type
* Migration between S3 Origins (buckets) -viewer request type
* Different objects (webpage) based on the device type - viewer request type
* Content By country - viewer request type

## Global Accelerator

* It is network product. It needs Anycast IP Address. It helps you reach you application/website faster by using AWS backbone
* Global accelerator does not understand caching nor understand http/https
* It is differs from the cloudfront on
  * Cloudfront uses only http/https
  * It is caching
  * It is S3 Pre-Signed URL
  * Delivery or manipulation of content
